# ECMA 402 meeting agenda

This is an initial agenda document; please add additional agenda items as appropriate through PRs to this repository.

March 16th, 2018, 17:15 UTC

Contact Daniel Ehrenberg (littledan@igalia.com) for the link to the Google Hangouts VC.

1. TC39 summary
    1. Non-members who contribute to ECMA 402 (either PRs or in this call): Sign [this form](https://tc39.github.io/agreements/contributor/) to license contributions to Ecma
1. Questions/issues with existing advanced proposals and APIs
    1. [Normative: Add calendar and numberingSystem options](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/175)
        - Resolution from the last meeting: We should validate the shape, but not the actual contents.
        - Dan working on a test262, V8, spec patches for this.
    1. [Segmenter: Should we add all the options (lw, ss), or just lb?](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-segmenter/issues/23)
        - Data size?
    1. Locale:
        1. [Consider performing complete Unicode extension canonicalization per RFC6067](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale/issues/14)
            - Conclusion was to do the full canonicalization?
        1. [Return DefaultLocale() when calling Intl.Locale() with an absent/undefined tag argument?](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale/issues/15)
            - Conclusion was to not make this change and require an argument?
        1. [Spec questions/errors](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale/issues/12)
            - Do we want to carry forward the optionality of kf and kn?
            - How are we handling regular and irregular grandfathered tags? (also for the [main specification](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/177))
            - Missing notes from last time
    1. Intl updates for the Kangax compatibility table? (Zibi)
1. ICU tickets to support existing advanced proposals and APIs
    1. [Add RelativeDateTimeFormatter.format(FieldPositionIterator)?](https://ssl.icu-project.org/trac/ticket/13256)
        - icu-design proposal resent; any feedback? Next steps?
        - ICU patch wanted
    1. [RelativeDateTimeFormatter doesn't handle -0 well](https://ssl.icu-project.org/trac/ticket/12936)
        - ICU patch wanted
    1. [TimeZone::getOffset() : add two params to control repeated/skipped wall time](https://ssl.icu-project.org/trac/ticket/13268)
        - Jungshik wrote a patch, anyone want to review?
        - Was a proposal sent to icu-design? (Dan can't find it)
    1. [Get locales with PluralRules support](https://ssl.icu-project.org/trac/ticket/12756)
        - Should we close as will-not-fix because all locales will always be considered supported?
    1. Are there any remaining APIs that need to be marked as "stable" or ported to C?
    1. Any other support needed from ICU for Intl proposals?
1. New proposals
    1. [NumberFormat changes](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/215), including (a) restructuring the spec, (b) minor changes to behavior, (c) support for measure units, and (d) support for scientific and compact notation.
        - Status update for this proposal?
        - How is the [C API](https://ssl.icu-project.org/trac/ticket/13597) coming (necessary for ChakraCore, at least)
        - Overall thoughts?
        - What to do with the `style` option: "deprecate" it (Option 1) or keep it as a first-class citizen (Option 2)?
        - Where to put the modifiers for units, like the width and compound units: as a top-level setting (Option A) or as a nested object literal on the `unit` key (Option B)?
    1. [IntervalFormat](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/188) (Felipe)
        - Status update
        - Which should be the structure of `.formatRangeToParts()'s` return value?
        - Any trouble creating a repository? Feel free to contact Dan for help.
    1. [UnitFormat](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-unit-format) ([bug](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/32)) (Stage 1)
        - Still relevant with Shane's proposal?
        - API suggestions for [compound units](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-unit-format/issues/2)?
    1. [BigInt.prototype.toLocaleString](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/218#issuecomment-370789166)
1. Future meetings
    1. Does the two-hour, once a month format still work well?
    1. Feedback about prioritization, running meeting, etc
    1. Is April 20th at 17:15 UTC a good next meeting time? (Note: DST may shift the effective time by an hour)
        - Are we missing out on participation from Asia with these meeting times?
        - Standing request: Find a time which is not Friday evening in some time zones


#### Overflow

If we somehow have additional time, additional features to discuss (most likely to overflow into the next meeting)

1. New proposals
    1. [DurationFormat](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/47) (Stage 1)
    1. [Hyphenation](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/93)
    1. MessageFormat
    1. Additional Locale features
        1. [Intl.getParentLocales](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/87)
        1. likelySubtags
        1. [Display Names](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/31)
        1. [Directionality of scripts](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/205)
        1. [Add a way to remove subtags through options?](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale/issues/16)
        1. [First day of the week](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/6)
    1. [API for reading Unicode properties](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/90)
    1. Additional options
        1. [dateStyle/timeStyle](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-ecma402-datetime-style) (Stage 1)
        1. [Need "symbo-alt-narrow" for Int.NumberFormat options.currencyDisplay](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/200)
        1. [DateTimeFormat: add 'skeleton' support](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/189)
        1. [DateTimeFormat: add support options.raw (aka pattern)](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/190)
        1. [Need Support for "accounting" type in NumberFormat](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/186)
        1. [NumberFormat: new style scientific](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/164)
        1. [NumberFormat: new option to force sign](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/163)
        1. [DateTimeFormat: consider adding more timezone display options](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/119)
        1. [Support numbering systems "native", "traditio", and "finance"](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/95)
        1. [[Proposal] Compact Decimal Format to abbreviate large numbers](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/37)
        1. [Expose ability to produce a base form of the word used by Collator](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/44)
    1. [case fold](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/99), title case
    1. HTML proposals
        1. [navigator.locale](https://github.com/whatwg/html/pull/3046)
        1. [timezonechange](https://github.com/whatwg/html/pull/3047)
    1. [What should we do about the specification's implementation-dependent behavior?](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/113)
