# ECMA 402 meeting agenda

This is an initial agenda document; please add additional agenda items as appropriate through PRs to this repository.

February 16th, 2018, 17:15 UTC

Contact Daniel Ehrenberg (littledan@igalia.com) for the link to the Google Hangouts VC.

1. TC39 summary
    1. ECMA 402 2018 edition feature set finalized
        1. [formatToParts](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/47)
        1. [PluralRules](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-plural-rules)
        1. [hourCycle](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/135)
    1. Features reached Stage 3
        1. [ListFormat](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-list-format)
        1. [RelativeTimeFormat](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-relative-time)
        1. [Locale](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale)
    1. [lb option added to Segmenter](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-segmenter/pull/24); [renamed to lineBreakStyle](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-segmenter/pull/25)
    1. [Settled on numeric: always/auto](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-relative-time/pull/60)
    1. [Explained the existence of this call; well-received](https://github.com/tc39/tc39-notes/blob/master/es8/2018-01/jan-23.md#4-ecma402-status-updates)
    1. Non-members who contribute to ECMA 402 (either PRs or in this call): Sign [this form](https://tc39.github.io/agreements/contributor/) to license contributions to Ecma
1. Questions/issues with existing advanced proposals and APIs
    1. [Normative: Add calendar and numberingSystem options](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/175)
        - Should we do validation which throws for these? Is there an ICU API?
    1. [Segmenter: Should we add all the options (lw, ss), or just lb?](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-segmenter/issues/23)
        - At the last meeting, it seemed like Steven favorited this change but Jungshik was hesitant
        - tiebreaker: stay minimal?
    1. Locale:
        1. [Consider performing complete Unicode extension canonicalization per RFC6067](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale/issues/14)
            - Namely, should we sort and deduplicate all of the extensions (not just the recognized ones)?
        1. [Return DefaultLocale() when calling Intl.Locale() with an absent/undefined tag argument?](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale/issues/15)
        1. [Spec questions/errors](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale/issues/12)
            - Do we want to carry forward the optionality of kf and kn?
            - How are we handling regular and irregular grandfathered tags? (also for the [main specification](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/177))
anba's questions
1. ICU tickets to support existing advanced proposals and APIs
    1. [Add RelativeDateTimeFormatter.format(FieldPositionIterator)?](https://ssl.icu-project.org/trac/ticket/13256)
        - Dan sent an icu-design email; does anyone want to review?
        - ICU patch wanted
    1. [RelativeDateTimeFormatter doesn't handle -0 well](http://bugs.icu-project.org/trac/ticket/12936)
        - ICU patch wanted
    1. [TimeZone::getOffset() : add two params to control repeated/skipped wall time](http://bugs.icu-project.org/trac/ticket/13268)
        - Jungshik wrote a patch, anyone want to review?
        - Was a proposal sent to icu-design? (Dan can't find it)
    1. [Get locales with PluralRules support](https://ssl.icu-project.org/trac/ticket/12756)
        - Should we close as will-not-fix because all locales will always be considered supported?
    1. Any other support needed from ICU for Intl proposals?
1. New proposals
    1. [UnitFormat](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-unit-format) ([bug](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/32)) (Stage 1)
        - How is Shane's proposal coming? Should this be an option to NumberFormat?
        - Alternatively, if we go with a UnitFormat constructor, API suggestions for [compound units](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-unit-format/issues/2)?
    1. [Closure i18n features](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1WSvi865QADMs6vi6Z91hNauxxx_4cjyzdYPCNyJ_Xgc/edit#gid=0)
        1. Number parsing (Discuss)
        1. Compact decimal format
        1. Scientific format
        1. [IntervalFormat](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/188)
        1. Date time parsing (Discuss)
        1. Unicode BIDI algorithm (Discuss; not in Closure)
1. Future meetings
    1. Does the two-hour, once a month format still work well?
    1. Feedback about prioritization, running meeting, etc
    1. Is March 16th at 17:15 UTC a good next meeting time? (Note: TC39 is in London March 20-22)
        - Are we missing out on participation from Asia with these meeting times?
        - Standing request: Find a time which is not Friday evening in some time zones


#### Overflow

If we somehow have additional time, additional features to discuss (most likely to overflow into the next meeting)

1. New proposals
    1. [DurationFormat](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/47) (Stage 1)
    1. [Hyphenation](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/93)
    1. MessageFormat
    1. Additional Locale features
        1. [Intl.getParentLocales](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/87)
        1. likelySubtags
        1. [Display Names](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/31)
        1. [Directionality of scripts](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/205)
        1. [Add a way to remove subtags through options?](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale/issues/16)
        1. [First day of the week](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/6)
    1. [API for reading Unicode properties](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/90)
    1. Additional options
        1. [dateStyle/timeStyle](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-ecma402-datetime-style) (Stage 1)
        1. [Need "symbo-alt-narrow" for Int.NumberFormat options.currencyDisplay](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/200)
        1. [DateTimeFormat: add 'skeleton' support](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/189)
        1. [DateTimeFormat: add support options.raw (aka pattern)](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/190)
        1. [Need Support for "accounting" type in NumberFormat](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/186)
        1. [NumberFormat: new style scientific](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/164)
        1. [NumberFormat: new option to force sign](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/163)
        1. [DateTimeFormat: consider adding more timezone display options](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/119)
        1. [Support numbering systems "native", "traditio", and "finance"](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/95)
        1. [[Proposal] Compact Decimal Format to abbreviate large numbers](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/37)
        1. [Expose ability to produce a base form of the word used by Collator](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/44)
    1. [case fold](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/99), title case
    1. HTML proposals
        1. [navigator.locale](https://github.com/whatwg/html/pull/3046)
        1. [timezonechange](https://github.com/whatwg/html/pull/3047)
    1. [What should we do about the specification's implementation-dependent behavior?](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/113)
