# ECMA 402 meeting agenda

This is an initial agenda document; please add additional agenda items as appropriate through PRs to this repository.

April 20th, 2018, 17:15 UTC

Contact Daniel Ehrenberg (littledan@igalia.com) for the link to the Google Hangouts link.

1. Administrative issues
    1. Anyone want to help out with cleaning up and publishing notes for this meeting and past meetings?
    1. Meeting time which is not Friday evening? (Poorly affects at least 3 European attendees)
1. Questions/issues with existing advanced proposals and APIs
    1. [Improve handling of non-Gregorian calendars](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/227)
        - Add relatedYear option?
        - Make pattern set take calendar into account?
    1. [Locale processing edge case](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/223)
        - Fix seems clear; go for it?
    1. [Copy PluralCategories in Intl.PluralRules.prototype.resolvedOptions?](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/224)
        - We had previously resolved to not copy; consider revisiting due to SpiderMonkey implementation?
    1. [PartitionNumberPattern treats -0 as 0](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/219) (Jack Horton)
    1. Next steps on resolution on grandfathered tags from last meeting?
        - Are ECMA-402 changes needed, or is this only about Intl.Locale?
    1. [Intl.Locale issues](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale/issues)
        - [Add Intl.Locale.prototype.baseName](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale/issues/22)?
        - [Leave minimize/maximize for v2](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale/issues/16)?
1. ICU tickets to support existing advanced proposals and APIs
    1. [API design proposal](https://ssl.icu-project.org/trac/ticket/13256) for Intl.RelativeTimeFormat.prototype.formatToParts accepted with modifications
        - Is anyone interested in implementing? (Small amount of plumbing code)
    1. [API design proposal](https://ssl.icu-project.org/trac/ticket/13597) for C API for NumberFormatter accepted with modifications
        - Shane to implement?
    1. [unum_formatDoubleForFields will be marked as stable in ICU 61](https://ssl.icu-project.org/trac/ticket/13557)
    1. Dan to write API design proposals for other formatToParts/timezone functions
1. New proposals
    1. [NumberFormat changes](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/215), including (a) restructuring the spec, (b) minor changes to behavior, (c) support for measure units, and (d) support for scientific and compact notation.
        - Last meeting, settled on top-level settings, and maintaining `style`. Any further thoughts?
        - Status of [C API](https://ssl.icu-project.org/trac/ticket/13597) (necessary for 3 browsers)
        - Next steps on [proposal repository](https://github.com/sffc/proposal-unified-intl-numberformat)
    1. [formatRange/formatRangeToParts](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/188) (Felipe)
        - Last meeting, settled on the following. Any further thoughts?
            - formatRangeToParts returns a flat array, with a new attribute
            - formatRange/formatRangeToParts as methods on Intl.DateFormat, rather than a new class
        - Next steps
    1. [BigInt.prototype.toLocaleString](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/218#issuecomment-370789166)
        - Should we overload Intl.NumberFormat.prototype.format to support BigInt? Or a new method?
1. Status of existing proposals
    1. Discuss implementation/test development priorities of existing proposals
    1. Ms2ger is working on test262 tests
1. May TC39 meeting plans
    1. Propose NumberFormat options and formatRange for Stage 1?
    1. [Draft presentation](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1wEkpdxC37t4sk64QThcna8c4753-9Ak1I23LNDmZ9KE/edit#slide=id.p)
    1. Who wants to deliver the presentation?
1. Future meetings
    1. Does the two-hour, once a month format still work well?
    1. Feedback about prioritization, running meeting, etc
    1. Is May 18th at 17:15 UTC a good next meeting time?
        - Are we missing out on participation from Asia with these meeting times?
        - Standing request: Find a time which is not Friday evening in Europe


#### Overflow

If we somehow have additional time, additional features to discuss (most likely to overflow into the next meeting)

1. New proposals
    1. [DurationFormat](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/47) (Stage 1)
    1. [Hyphenation](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/93)
    1. MessageFormat
    1. Additional Locale features
        1. [Intl.getParentLocales](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/87)
        1. likelySubtags (minimize/maximize)
        1. [Display Names](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/31)
        1. [Directionality of scripts](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/205)
        1. [Add a way to remove subtags through options?](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale/issues/16)
        1. [First day of the week](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/6)
    1. [API for reading Unicode properties](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/90)
    1. Additional options
        1. [dateStyle/timeStyle](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-ecma402-datetime-style) (Stage 1)
        1. [Need "symbo-alt-narrow" for Int.NumberFormat options.currencyDisplay](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/200)
        1. [DateTimeFormat: add 'skeleton' support](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/189)
        1. [DateTimeFormat: add support options.raw (aka pattern)](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/190)
        1. [Need Support for "accounting" type in NumberFormat](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/186)
        1. [NumberFormat: new style scientific](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/164)
        1. [NumberFormat: new option to force sign](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/163)
        1. [DateTimeFormat: consider adding more timezone display options](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/119)
        1. [Support numbering systems "native", "traditio", and "finance"](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/95)
        1. [[Proposal] Compact Decimal Format to abbreviate large numbers](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/37)
        1. [Expose ability to produce a base form of the word used by Collator](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/44)
    1. [case fold](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/99), title case
    1. HTML proposals
        1. [navigator.locale](https://github.com/whatwg/html/pull/3046)
        1. [timezonechange](https://github.com/whatwg/html/pull/3047)
    1. [What should we do about the specification's implementation-dependent behavior?](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/113)
