# ECMA 402 meeting agenda

This is an initial agenda document; please add additional agenda items as appropriate through PRs to this repository.

July 19th, 2018, 16:00 UTC

Contact Daniel Ehrenberg (littledan@igalia.com) for the link to the Google Hangouts link.

1. PRs against ECMA-402
    1. [Normative: Improve handling of non-Gregorian calendars](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/227)
        - Implementations?
        - Tests?
    1. [Normative: Permit "unknown" DateTimeFormat/NumberFormat fields](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/245)
        - Implementations?
        - (Impossible to write a test)
    1. [Normative: Treat -0 as negative in NumberFormat](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/232)
        - Tests have landed
        - Implementations?
    1. Other issues to discuss in ECMA-402?
        - [Spec should be consistent about calling intrinsics](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/247)
1. Stage 3 APIs
    1. [Intl.Locale](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale)
        1. PRs out for review
            1. [Normative: Cite UTS #35 for canonicalizing Unicode extension tags](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale/pull/48)
            1. [Normative: Define error recovery behavior for likely subtags](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale/pull/49)
            1. [Normative: Improve handling of grandfathered/private use tags](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale/pull/50)
        1. How are implementations coming?
        1. Any issues with testing? (Should be pretty complete)
        1. Other Intl.Locale issues?
    1. [Intl.RelativeTimeFormat](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-relative-time)
        1. PRs out for review
            1. [Normative: Remove mistaken NumberFormat options](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-relative-time/pull/81)
        1. How are implementations coming?
        1. Any issues with testing? (Test262 covers surface area; substantial tests on the way)
        1. Other Intl.RelativeTimeFormat issues?
    1. [Intl.ListFormat](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-list-format)
    1. [Intl.Segmenter](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-segmenter)
1. Newer proposals
    1. [NumberFormat options](https://github.com/sffc/proposal-unified-intl-numberformat), including (a) restructuring the spec, (b) minor changes to behavior, (c) support for measure units, and (d) support for scientific and compact notation.
        - [Spec changes (in progress)](https://github.com/sffc/proposal-unified-intl-numberformat/compare/e0ee374...sffc:master)
        - Currency long names error: #238
        - Awkward rounding behavior: #239
        - Portuguese currency: #241
        - FYI: Planning for Stage 2 in July
    1. [formatRange/formatRangeToParts](https://github.com/fabalbon/proposal-intl-DateTimeFormat-formatRange) (Felipe)
        - [slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/e/2PACX-1vQXuKpkf-kHF4Ue-35PAez79EL2bTU-s3dGbQvj0zwOzbqnF1zJJif_RT8wV9v8VkI4agEzvBPbKOoi/pub)
        - Fell off the agenda at the May 2018 TC39 meeting
        - Plan: Stage 2 at July 2018 TC39 meeting (presented by Felipe Balbont√≠n)
        - Issues:
            - [Default behavior when date parameter is undefined](https://github.com/fabalbon/proposal-intl-DateTimeFormat-formatRange/issues/2)
            - [Throw a RangeError when startDate is greater than endDate](https://github.com/fabalbon/proposal-intl-DateTimeFormat-formatRange/issues/1)
    1. [DisplayNames](https://github.com/brawer/proposal-intl-displaynames)
        - [API shape issue](https://github.com/brawer/proposal-intl-displaynames/issues/4)
        - [Other issues](https://github.com/brawer/proposal-intl-displaynames/issues)
        - Plan for TC39 stages? Present to TC39 in July?
1. July 2018 TC39 meeting
    1. [Draft presentation](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/14KfUvfP2MtJItVirvaA_2jJ7j6p8QW93j4QGs1A3VC0/edit#slide=id.p)
1. Future meetings
    1. Any topics to discuss at the next meeting?
    1. Is August 16, 2018 at 16:00 UTC a good next meeting time?

#### Overflow

If we somehow have additional time, additional features to discuss (most likely to overflow into the next meeting)

1. New proposals
    1. Additional Locale features
        1. [Intl.getParentLocales](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/87)
        1. [Directionality of scripts](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/205)
        1. [First day of the week](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/6)
    1. HTML proposals
        1. [navigator.locale](https://github.com/whatwg/html/pull/3046)
        1. [timezonechange](https://github.com/whatwg/html/pull/3047)
    1. [API for reading Unicode properties](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/90)
    1. Additional options
        1. [dateStyle/timeStyle](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-ecma402-datetime-style) (Stage 1)
        1. [Need "symbo-alt-narrow" for Int.NumberFormat options.currencyDisplay](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/200)
        1. [DateTimeFormat: add 'skeleton' support](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/189)
        1. [DateTimeFormat: add support options.raw (aka pattern)](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/190)
        1. [DateTimeFormat: consider adding more timezone display options](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/119)
        1. [[Proposal] Compact Decimal Format to abbreviate large numbers](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/37)
        1. [Expose ability to produce a base form of the word used by Collator](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/44)
    1. [case fold](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/99), title case
    1. [Hyphenation](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/93)
    1. [What should we do about the specification's implementation-dependent behavior?](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/113)
