# ECMA 402 meeting agenda

This is an initial agenda document; please add additional agenda items as appropriate through PRs to this repository.

June 15th, 2018, 17:15 UTC

Contact Daniel Ehrenberg (littledan@igalia.com) for the link to the Google Hangouts link.

1. Questions/issues with existing advanced proposals and APIs
    1. [Improve handling of non-Gregorian calendars](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/227)
        - TODO: spec text tweaks [from Anba](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/227#issuecomment-389211876)
        - Achieved consensus in May 2018 TC39 meeting
        - Interested implementers/test authors?
    1. [Handling unknown codes for parts](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/231)
        - Consensus: Use "unknown" in these cases
        - TODO: Write spec text (untestable)
1. Stage 3 APIs
    1. Intl.Locale
        1. [V8 implementation](https://chromium-review.googlesource.com/c/v8/v8/+/1014411) landed by Nebojša Ćirić
        1. [SpiderMonkey implementation](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?format=default&id=1433303) out for review by André Bargull -- TODO check if it landed
        1. [Test262 tests](https://github.com/tc39/test262/pull/1553) complete coverage (?) by ms2ger
        1. Review of recent decisions
            1. [Refactor ResolveLocale in terms of Intl.Locale](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale/pull/36#issuecomment-389621874) -- TODO(littledan): Reuse internal datastructures only
            1. [What should be the grammar to validate, e.g., calendar?](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale/pull/23#issuecomment-389355014) -- TODO(littledan): Throw on `""` calendar, etc
            1. [Option processing null edge case](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale/issues/40) -- Throw in the case of `null`, no change needed
            1. [Throw exceptions for unapplyable options?](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale/issues/25) -- ???
        1. New questions raised by @anba
            1. [What to do about mismatches between RFC 6067 and UTS 35?](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale/issues/43)
            1. [Non-registered subtags as a result of Intl.Locale.prototype.maximize](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale/issues/41)
            1. [Error behavior on Intl.Locale.prototype.maximize](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale/issues/42)
        1. Stage 4 in July?
    1. Intl.RelativeTimeFormat
        1. [Parts should be the internal NumberFormat parts](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-relative-time/pull/70) -- resolved to include internal parts
        1. [Implemented in Firefox](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?format=default&id=1270140) 
        1. [Intl.RelativeTimeFormat.prototype.formatToParts API approved](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1YheKc9OHt4AegzB0NeaHo5wTzpS4ia2irqXQSYXSUm0/edit#heading=h.jr7nec16y88w)
            - Does anyone want to implement?
        1. No tests, no other implementations
1. Newer proposals
    1. [NumberFormat options](https://github.com/sffc/proposal-unified-intl-numberformat), including (a) restructuring the spec, (b) minor changes to behavior, (c) support for measure units, and (d) support for scientific and compact notation.
        - [Spec changes (in progress)](https://github.com/sffc/proposal-unified-intl-numberformat/compare/e0ee374...sffc:master)
        - Currency long names error: #238
        - Awkward rounding behavior: #239
        - FYI: API surface questions resolved last meeting
            - [Measure unit syntax](https://github.com/sffc/proposal-unified-intl-numberformat/issues/3)
            - [Compact and Scientific Notation Syntax](https://github.com/sffc/proposal-unified-intl-numberformat/issues/5)
            - [Sign Display Syntax](https://github.com/sffc/proposal-unified-intl-numberformat/issues/6)
        - FYI: Planning for Stage 2 in July
    1. [formatRange/formatRangeToParts](https://github.com/fabalbon/proposal-intl-DateTimeFormat-formatRange) (Felipe)
        - [slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/e/2PACX-1vQXuKpkf-kHF4Ue-35PAez79EL2bTU-s3dGbQvj0zwOzbqnF1zJJif_RT8wV9v8VkI4agEzvBPbKOoi/pub)
        - Fell off the agenda at the May 2018 TC39 meeting
        - Plan: Stage 1 at July 2018 TC39 meeting (presented by Sathya Gunasekaran) (?)
    1. [BigInt.prototype.toLocaleString](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/218#issuecomment-370789166); [PR](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/236)
        - Got consensus in the May 2018 TC39 meeting; "at Stage 3" together with BigInt
        - Interest in implementing, writing tests?
    1. [DisplayNames](https://github.com/brawer/proposal-intl-displaynames)
        - [API shape issue](https://github.com/brawer/proposal-intl-displaynames/issues/4)
        - [Other issues](https://github.com/brawer/proposal-intl-displaynames/issues)
        - Plan for TC39 stages? Present to TC39 in July?
1. ECMA-402 management
    1. Candidates for editor while Caridy is on leave?
    1. Does anyone want to help with meeting agendas, organization, etc?
    1. Should we post the meeting invitation publicly?
1. Future meetings
    1. Any topics to discuss at the next meeting?
    1. Is July xx, 2018 at 16:00 UTC a good next meeting time?

#### Overflow

If we somehow have additional time, additional features to discuss (most likely to overflow into the next meeting)

1. New proposals
    1. Additional Locale features
        1. [Intl.getParentLocales](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/87)
        1. [Directionality of scripts](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/205)
        1. [First day of the week](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/6)
    1. HTML proposals
        1. [navigator.locale](https://github.com/whatwg/html/pull/3046)
        1. [timezonechange](https://github.com/whatwg/html/pull/3047)
    1. [API for reading Unicode properties](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/90)
    1. Additional options
        1. [dateStyle/timeStyle](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-ecma402-datetime-style) (Stage 1)
        1. [Need "symbo-alt-narrow" for Int.NumberFormat options.currencyDisplay](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/200)
        1. [DateTimeFormat: add 'skeleton' support](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/189)
        1. [DateTimeFormat: add support options.raw (aka pattern)](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/190)
        1. [DateTimeFormat: consider adding more timezone display options](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/119)
        1. [[Proposal] Compact Decimal Format to abbreviate large numbers](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/37)
        1. [Expose ability to produce a base form of the word used by Collator](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/44)
    1. [case fold](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/99), title case
    1. [Hyphenation](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/93)
    1. [What should we do about the specification's implementation-dependent behavior?](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/113)
