Meeting November 26th, 9:30-12:30, America/Los_Angeles, in Google Mountain View

Address: 1310 Shorebird Way, Mountain View, CA 94043

Please fill out this Doodle ahead of the meeting: https://doodle.com/poll/whi2ictc47hun3nf

1. Bugs/PRs against ECMA-402
    1. [Adopting Unicode BCP47 Locale Identifers](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/289) ([Intl.Locale PR](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale/pull/66)).
        1. Ready to land?
        1. Should some shared work be done in ICU?
    1. [Permit tailorings for case mapping](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/291)
    1. [BiDi note](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/290)
2. Stage 3 APIs
    1. [Intl.Locale](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale)
        1. Any other issues after Unicode BCP47 Locale Identifers are adopted?
    2. [Intl.RelativeTimeFormat](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-relative-time)
        1. [Allow to modify the numbering system through "nu"?](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-relative-time/issues/96)
        1. Any updates on ICU work?
    3. [Intl.ListFormat](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-list-format)
        1. Any issues?
    4. [Intl.Segmenter](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-segmenter)
        1. Big one: [{granularity: "line"} promotes reimplementing paragraph layout in script](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-segmenter/issues/49)
        1. [Should "breakType" rename to "segmentType"](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-segmenter/issues/44)
3. Stage 2 proposals
    1. [Intl.NumberFormat Unified Feature Proposal](https://github.com/sffc/proposal-unified-intl-numberformat)
        1. For Stage 3 in November!
    2. [formatRange/formatRangeToParts](https://github.com/fabalbon/proposal-intl-DateTimeFormat-formatRange) (Felipe)
        1. Any updates?
4. Newer proposals
    1. [dateStyle/timeStyle](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-ecma402-datetime-style) (Stage 1)
        1. New specification revision. Propose for Stage 2 in TC39?
        2. [hourCycle support added](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-datetime-style/pull/12)
        3. Any other concerns?
    2. [DisplayNames](https://github.com/brawer/proposal-intl-displaynames)
        1. Next steps?
        2. [API shape issue](https://github.com/brawer/proposal-intl-displaynames/issues/4)
        3. [Other issues](https://github.com/brawer/proposal-intl-displaynames/issues)
        4. Implementable in practice using data on mobile devices?
    3. [navigator.ontimezonechange](https://github.com/whatwg/html/pull/3047)
        1. Any more support? (need two browsers)
        1. More feedback on the synchronize update vs not issue?
5. Let's work down our feature and bug wishlist backlog, if there's time!
6. Future meetings
    1. Any topics to discuss at the next meeting?
    2. Should we meet December 20th, or skip for the holidays?

#### **Overflow**

If we somehow have additional time, additional features to discuss (most likely to overflow into the next meeting)

1. New proposals
    1. Additional Locale features
        1. [Intl.getParentLocales](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/87)
        2. [Directionality of scripts](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/205)
        3. [First day of the week](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/6)
    3. [API for reading Unicode properties](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/90)
    4. Additional options
        1. [Need "symbo-alt-narrow" for Int.NumberFormat options.currencyDisplay](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/200)
        2. [DateTimeFormat: add 'skeleton' support](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/189)
        3. [DateTimeFormat: add support options.raw (aka pattern)](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/190)
        4. [DateTimeFormat: consider adding more timezone display options](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/119)
        5. [[Proposal] Compact Decimal Format to abbreviate large numbers](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/37)
        6. [Expose ability to produce a base form of the word used by Collator](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/44)
    5. [case fold](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/99), title case
    6. [Hyphenation](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/93)
    7. [What should we do about the specification's implementation-dependent behavior?](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/113)
