This is an initial agenda document; please add additional agenda items as appropriate through PRs to this repository.

March 21st, 2019, 16:00 UTC

Contact Daniel Ehrenberg (littledan@igalia.com) for the link to the Google Hangouts link.

1. ECMA-402 editing and management
   1. ECMA-402 editor group: Leo invites Valerie and Isaac
      1. Using project management
1. Bugs/PRs against ECMA-402
   1. Questions from [Various Unicode BCP 47 locale identifiers issues](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/330)
   1. Formatting of BigInt: [PR236](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/236) ? [PR318](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/318) ?
1. Stage 3 proposals:
   1. [Intl.Locale](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale)
      1. Chrome is shipping in m74.
   1. [Intl.Segmenter](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-segmenter)
       1. Break-based version (TODO: add link)
   1. [Unified NumberFormat](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-unified-intl-numberformat)
       1. [Unit format data size](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-unified-intl-numberformat/issues/39)
           1. Split out unit formatting?
   1. [Intl.RelativeTimeFormat](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-relative-time)
       1. Any issues blocking Intl.RelativeTimeFormat.prototype.formatToParts implementation?
   1. [Intl.ListFormat](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-list-format)
      1. [PR40](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-list-format/pull/40): To make the error message meaningful, need to rollback part of [PR36](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-list-format/pull/36)
   1. BigInt.prototype.toLocaleString and Intl.NumberFormat
       1. Dan to present presentation arguing for separate Intl.NumberFormat.prototype.formatBigInt method ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1L19IEMWwfGyKFbaA1FAKIl2PEuSoQXtSOvVQLHJV5g0/edit#slide=id.p))
1. Stage 2 proposals:
   1. [intl-datetime-style](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-datetime-style)
       1. Dan to present for Stage 3. Any concerns?
       1. Thanks for the [editorial patch](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-datetime-style/pull/22), Frank
   1. [DateTimeFormat formatRange](https://github.com/fabalbon/proposal-intl-DateTimeFormat-formatRange)
       1. Felipe to present for Stage 3. Any concerns?
1. Stage 1 proposals:
   1. [Intl.DisplayNames](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-displaynames)
      1. [Need of this API](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-displaynames/issues/21)
      1. [dateSymbol issue](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-displaynames/issues/22)
          1. What kinds of input from developers would help us understand if these features are well-motivated?
      1. [Dialect control](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-displaynames/issues/20)
      1. Others?
      1. Would like to move into Stage 2.
1. Other proposals:
1. Other topics:
1. TC39 status update presentation: (TODO: add link to slides)
1. Future meetings
   1. April 18th, 2019, 16:00 UTC
