# ECMA 402 meeting agenda

This is an initial agenda document; please add additional agenda items as appropriate through PRs to this repository.

December 15th, 2017, 18:00 UTC

Contact Daniel Ehrenberg (littledan@igalia.com) for the link to the Google Hangouts VC.

1. Introduction and intention of this meeting: (~5m)
    1. Move forward the ECMA 402 (Intl) standard by discussing among experts in the field, developing and refining proposals, and making recommendations to TC39
    1. Quick overview of current TC39 process and recent status of ECMA 402
1. Everyone: Who is here and what is your interest in ECMA 402? What direction would you like to see it go in? (~15m)
    1. [Google's interests and mid-term goals](https://goo.gl/pyP4Ec)
1. Overview of new features in ECMA 402 after v2:
    1. [formatToParts](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/47)
    1. [PluralRules](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-plural-rules)
    1. [hourCycle](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/135)
1. Overview of advanced pending proposals and their status--what do you think of these? (~10m)
    1. [Intl.Segmenter](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-segmenter) (Stage 3)
    1. [Intl.ListFormat](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-list-format) (Stage 2)
    1. [Intl.RelativeTimeFormat](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-relative-time) (Stage 2)
1. Less advanced proposals (~10m)
    1. [Intl.UnitFormat](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/32)  (Stage 1)
    1. [dateStyle/timeStyle options](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-ecma402-datetime-style) (Stage 1)
    1. Adding various options to existing formatters ([overview](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/186#issuecomment-338788856), [label for bugs](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/labels/option))
    1. [Intl.IntervalFormat](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/188)
    1. [Intl.DurationFormat](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/47)
    1. Data access: [display names](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/31), likely subtags, [Unicode character database](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/90), BiDi information etc
    1. [navigator.locales](https://github.com/whatwg/html/pull/3046), [window.ontimezonechange](https://github.com/whatwg/html/pull/3047)
    1. What else would you like to pursue beyond this? Hyphenation? MessageFormat?
1. If there is time, go over some questions to answer from bugs/PRs: (~5m)
    1. [Intl.RelativeTimeFormat type: numeric/text naming](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-relative-time/issues/54)
    1. [Should locales support _?](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale/issues/7)
    1. [ISO 4217 vs CLDR default currency digits](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/134)
    1. There are several more bugs [in the bug tracker](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues)
1. Work to do in ICU to support proposals (~5m)
    1. RelativeTimeFormat formatToParts
    1. (possibly) API for PluralRules supported locales
    1. Anything more?
1. Future (~10m)
    1. How should we structure these group's work and these meetings in the future?
    1. Do we want to schedule a follow-on meeting?
    1. How should we divide up action items among us?
    1. Minor: Should we propose to become an official task group of TC39, or continue as an ad-hoc group?
