# ECMA 402 meeting agenda

This is an initial agenda document; please add additional agenda items as appropriate through PRs to this repository.

January 19th, 2017, 18:00 UTC

Contact Daniel Ehrenberg (littledan@igalia.com) for the link to the Google Hangouts VC.

1. Introduce meeting
    1. Agenda priority: Discuss proposals which are furthest along in standardization first
    1. The greatest need for feedback for committee process is the proposals for advancement to Stage 3 (4. below); however, first review the new "finished" standards.
1. ECMA 402, 2018 edition
    1. [formatToParts](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/47)
        - For DateTimeFormat and NumberFormat
        - Template for future proposals
        - Stage 4
        - Implemented and shipped in Chrome and Firefox
        - Standardized in 2017 edition (DateTimeFormat) and standardizing 2018 edition (NumberFormat)
        - Any concerns?
    1. [PluralRules](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-plural-rules)
        - Stage 4
        - Implemented and shipped in Chrome and Firefox
        - Standardizing in 2018 edition
        - Should ICU support [an API for getting the supported locales](https://ssl.icu-project.org/trac/ticket/12756) or should ICU users assume all locales are supported?
        - Any concerns?
    1. [hourCycle](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/135)
        - Landed as a pull request (no stages)
        - Standardizing in 2018 edition
        - [PR out for review](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/204) -- minor tweak for resolved locale
        - Any concerns?
    1. Small changes
        1. [Normative: Add calendar and numberingSystem options](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/175)
            - Add two things to the option bag that are present in locale tags
            - TC39 agreed to the change
            - Any concerns?
        1. [Normative: Apply TimeClip in PartitionDateTimePattern](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/194)
            - Throw RangeError for dates which are invalid by being too large or small
            - Aligns with Date without adding complexity
            - Test262 tests; implemented in Firefox 59
            - Any concerns?
        1. [Make LocalTZA take 't' and 'isUTC' and drop DSTA(t)](https://github.com/tc39/ecma262/pull/778)
            - Date semantics tweaks for timezones
            - Timezone offset is dependent on the current time, matching reality
            - Define particular semantics for repeated times due to DST
            - Implementation out for review in V8
            - Merged into ECMA 262, slated for ES2018
1. Stage 3 proposals
    1. [Intl.Segmenter](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-segmenter/)
        - Stage 3
        - No implementations or test262 tests
        - Current specification deliberately doesn't specify segmentation algorithm.
        - Should we switch to requiring UAX 14/29 + unspecified tailoring?
        - Should we require that HTML line breaking matches Intl.Segmenter breaks?
1. Proposals for advacement to Stage 3
    1. [Intl.RelativeTimeFormat](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-relative-time)
        - Stage 2
        - [Intl.RelativeTimeFormat type: numeric/text naming](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-relative-time/issues/54)
        - [ICU support](https://ssl.icu-project.org/trac/ticket/13256) for RelativeTimeFormat.prototype.formatToParts?
        - API: Similar to ICU, create a formatter, then use it with a particular unit. No built-in algorithm for choice of unit. [PR](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-relative-time/pull/18)
        - Aesthetics: Unit is passed as a string, accepted in either singular or plural [Bug](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-relative-time/issues/40)
        - Omitted features: Capitalization context, days of the week
        - Ready for Stage 3?
    1. [Intl.Locale](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale/)
        - Stage 2
        - [Should locales support _?](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale/issues/7)
        - [Will not throw an exception on unsupported locales](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale/issues/6)
        - [Should additional tags be passed through?](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale/issues/4)
        - OK to ship this as a minimal base, with other important complements (likely subtags, display names, more options) in follow-on proposals?
        - Ready for Stage 3?
    1. [Intl.ListFormat](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-list-format)
        - Stage 2
        - [List elements are not formatted; non-strings throw](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-list-format/issues/4). Seem reasonable?
        - Ready for Stage 3?
1. Future meetings
    1. Does the two-hour, once a month format work well?
    1. Feedback about prioritization, running meeting, etc
    1. Is Feb 16th a good next meeting time?
