Attendees: Steven Loomis (SL), Felipe Balbotin (FB), Shane Carr (SC), Daniel Ehrenberg (DE), Frank Tang (FT), Mathias Bynens (MB), Markus Scherer (MS), Zibi Braniecki (ZB), Jeff Genovy (JG), Richard Gibson (RG), S Litherum (SLi)

* littledan stepping down as leader of the meeting + person who gives Intl updates during TC39
    * proposal: rotating responsibility

* Bugs/PRs against ECMA-402
    * [Adopting Unicode BCP47 Locale Identifers](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/289) ([Intl.Locale PR](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale/pull/66)).
        * Ready to land?
        * Question about sorting Unicode extension subtags.
        * Should the constructor enforce sorting?
            * ICU has generally done canonicalization as a separate step.
            * Reasons:
                * Performance.
                * Passing char* strings from other APIs.
                * Not wanting to mutate the input string.
            * MS/SL: Not necessary to carry-forward the ICU behavior.
            * DE: [The constructor](https://tc39.github.io/proposal-intl-locale/#sec-intl-locale-constructor) already mutates the input string.
            * MS/SL: If it already mutates in the input string, then should consider sorting as well.
            * DE: Seems like we have consensus? Does anyone else have concerns with BCP 47 locale identifiers, like zh-min (lots of extra testing in layer tests)?
            * MS: zh-min is just an xlang, right?  So it gets mapped to min?  zh-min is, um, I see, it says grandfathered and doesn't have a replacement value.  So it would become und-x-zh-min
            * DE: Yeah, we had special cases to handle the 5 cases for grandfathered tags.  Gaelic is another example.  So we have to have another check for it later.  but that's the only edge case remaining.
            * FT: ECMA 402 current canonicalized language tag section is funny.  It mentions 5646, but later on it mentions ambiguous 6067, but it doesn't say it needs to follow that.
            * DE: Yeah, that's the exact section that is changing in the PR.  That "may" word doesn't change though.
            * FT: The "may" should be a "must".  That would make Ecma 402 synchronized.
            * DE: I don't think it's enough, because we still need to point to UTS 35.  Because we still need to do zh-min to und-x-zh-min.
            * DE: There are still many many parts of the spec that say "may".  I think we should change lots of them.  But people are sometimes like, "well, nothing is guaranteed with intl, so you should just leave it alone."  But when we leave things optional, implementations don't get around to making them work.
            * FT: I think it should be case-by-case.
            * DE: Should we go through all of the "mays" in the spec and look at them one by one?
            * FT: Not right now.  I don't have the context to express my opinion.  I'm just saying that for this one case, "may" could fix the issue.
            * FT/DE: Will discuss further in a subgroup
            * FT: things we need to work on: (1) any canonicalization about grandfathered things, and (2) the order of the subtags.
        * Should some shared work be done in ICU?
    * [Permit tailorings for case mapping](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/291)
        * DE: Andrej found that tailorings are "too good": use only the locale-insensitive parts of case mapping, which is a weird thing to say.  Implementations were passing in the locale to do case mapping.  Turkish and Lithuanian case mapping has different rules than Greek, for example.  The spec says that we allow the tailorings to be in CLDR.
        * SL: Wouldn't it be better to say, use CLDR for this?  But it could say, "or any other local tailorings." That's standard practice for an implementation.  There can be additional data.
        * DE: Yeah, I'm just trying to follow unicode spec.  When in the past we've allowed implementations to have their own data, people say no, be more specific.
        * SL: I can pull up the spec, but my understanding is that the unicode spec would say to use the spec or custom tailorings, and CLDR is just an example of that.
        * DE: Okay.  I'm happy to make this change in the spec.  Would someone want to change the Unicode spec as well?
        * MS: I would have to dig into Chapter 3 or 5 and see what it says specifically.
        * SL: I'm looking at Chapter 5 here.  I think Unicode is just giving examples.  If you look at the examples in conformance clause, you can tailor anything you need to.  Implementations are free to tailor something according to locale.
        * MS: As long as they say what they do.
        * DE: I see.  Okay.
        * SL: So CLDR is just an example source for the tailoring, but i don't think the ecma spec should restrict case mapping to only those that are available in CLDR.  i think that would be too restrictive.  That would be like saying you can only have currency symbols that are in CLDR.
        * DE: Yeah, the IANA spec for decimal separators is inconsistent with CLDR.  When we discussed it there, people said we should be more specific as possible and we should reference 4617 (?) even if the data quality isn't as good.
        * SL: We want to use CLDR but not restrict ourselves to CLDR.
        * DE: I'm okay with that change: you can use whatever data you want, and CLDR is a good example.  But people in the past have wanted more specific.
        * SL: This seems like a good idea to put in frontmatter so you don't have to repeat it everywhere in the spec.
        * SL: Maybe I can file a separate issue for this.  I think Unicode's conformance clauses are a good model for how this might be written.  I can file a separate issue.
        * FT: So, when you say Unicode, you mean to keep this more open instead of specific?
        * SL: i think implementations need to tailor if there is a need they have that is not in CLDR.
        * MS: ICU for example doesn't follow exactly what CLDR has.  It's really hard to express the Greek rules, for example, in ICU transliterator rules.  So if you said that it *must* be what CLDR has, then Greek uppercasing would be quite bad.
        * DE: I see, so this is motivating this specific issue.  So we should be careful if we need to make a change.
        * DE: The conclusion is to do what Steven suggested and be more general to allow "CLDR or other tailorings" and we should look into frontmatter to make this more general, like the Unicode standard does. 
            * SL: filed [https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/299](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/299) to track
    * [BiDi note](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/290)
        * DE: TPAC discussion with Intl WG, where we got an in-depth review of current spec + future changes.
            * FT: What was the context/background for this review?
            * DE: The Intl WG does reviews for everything involving internationalization. They kind of provide consultancy for the rest of W3C and other standards bodies. They maintain a checklist of what to look for etc. and offer good advice.
        * DE: There was some general concern about our design of having low-level APIs where we were focusing on RelativeTimeFormat and not MessageFormat with a RelativeTimeFormat feature. Maybe Zibi’s *Project Fluent* proposal could help here.
            * Perhaps Project Fluent might become MessageFormat "version 2"...
        * Concern is coming from a POV that these features could be used incorrectly. Many formatters might need special things around them for BiDi purposes. E.g. date formatter you want to use in Arabic, might need more information — you might need special ordering marks or HTML tags etc.
        * ZB: Don’t fully understand the concern. We’ve been using formatters for 2+ years in Firefox. The question was whether to reset the directionality on every single number being formatter, for example. As long as you follow the same locale between message + date/number, they will have the same directionality — so no need for order marks or HTML tags.
        * DE: When you say "reset", can you clarify?
        * ZB: So Unicode provides two ways to approach bidi.  The first way is to explicitly state it.  The other is to say, the following fragment may have a different directionality; please calculate directionality again for this segment.  Then you have to look at the range of characters, etc.  It's recommended by W3C to put characters around any interpolated text.  For example, if you have a string "$name liked your message", the value of "$name" could have different directionality from the rest of the text.  As long as the direction is the same, like if I'm in Arabic and I put in an Arabic date, then directionality should hold.  I haven't encountered a case where bidi marks would be needed.
        * DE: That is my understanding as well, but someone said, "there's this case you don't understand".  I should retrace who that is.  One case that's interesting is list format.
        * FT: There is a particular locale in list format.  I think it's Urdu.  Urdu list format in ICU actually, in particular for list type = unit, Urdu has a funky thing about this order.  they basically put a logical order there because, I think there's an issue there.
        * ZB: So we can address that, and I think we should, in the same way we do in Date Time Format patterns.  If there's a necessity for the *pattern* to contain bidi marks.  We could make the list format include bidi marks around each element of the list.  It just seems from my experience that it doesn't seem necessary to put marks around the date interpolated into a message, *if* the date and the message are from the same locale.  I would like something that says, put the bidi marks only if the message and date are from a different locale.
        * FT: I agree with Zibi.  I'm just pointing out the list format example.
        * FB: Wouldn't it be useful of the users of this API, to just remind them about being careful?
        * FT: Well not in particular.  Any API returning text has this issue.
        * ZB: It might be, but I think it should be on the opposite end.  For example, not, "if you're using datetime, think about which context."  It should be part of the message localization system.  If you place the date in isolation, it's the layout's responsibility to do the layout.
        * SLi: If you leave it up to the implementation layout engine, it may even be worse off and confuse the engine. 
        * FT: I'd like a high-level note that says, if you use this API, keep in mind that the directionality of the text could be changed, and you might need to worry about it.  I think it shouldn't be on every single call.
        * FB: I agree
        * ZB: Yes.  Maybe a solution here would be, … I posted a [link to the W3C](https://www.w3.org/International/articles/inline-bidi-markup/).  Maybe we should generally put this in the notes on the intl module.  If you use Intl in a textual context, you should handle bidi.
        * DE: That sounds reasonable.  I'll follow up with a patch.
        * ZB: If you can find the Urdu example and post it in the issue, I'd be happy to investigate it.
* Stage 3 APIs
    * [Intl.Locale](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale)
        * Any other issues after Unicode BCP47 Locale Identifiers are adopted? PR: [https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale/pull/66/files](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale/pull/66/files) 
        * FT: Last meeting we said we were going to reflect the changes (to what?).  My understanding is that there's a huge section ApplyOptionsToTag that will dramatically change. But that PR hasn't been merged yet, right.  But we have a PR for it.  Are we going to talk about the PR here?
        * DE: Either way, here or offline.  Frank, can you make that call?
        * DE: Okay, let's come back to it later.
    * [Intl.RelativeTimeFormat](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-relative-time)
        * [Allow to modify the numbering system through "nu"?](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-relative-time/issues/96)
        * Any updates on ICU work?
        * DE: I like the idea of supporting it, even though it's not yet in the spec.
        * FT: So currently we didn't have nu in the spec, but now we take nu into account, right?
        * DE: Right.  The spec currently says you ignore tags like nu.
        * SC: It would be a hack to ignore the nu option.  Number format always tries to obey the locale string.
        * SLi: I prefer to be clear about what we need to implement.
        * DE: It will be enumerated in the spec.
    * [Intl.ListFormat](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-list-format)
        * Any issues?
        * DE: Some locales don't have "or" data in CLDR, and they fall back to the root locale.  Anything we should do about that?  ([issue #34](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-list-format/issues/34))
        * FT: It's just an implementation detail?
        * ZB: Yes, but it's an interesting one.
        * FB: Yeah, but maybe it's better to ignore the OR case for now.
        * DE: We could remove the OR case in general, but that seems unfortunate.
        * SL: I think the behavior is similar to something that's not available, like a currency or calendar that isn't in a locale.
        * FT: If you go to Issue 34, they list a lot of locales, but they are smaller languages.  It's a chicken-and-egg issue.  If no one uses OR data, they won't put the data there.
        * ZB: The problem is that if we don't put it here, I can't think of any locale that would be able to use symbols; in most cases locales use words.  My understanding is that in cases where we have fallback, the fallback is language-dependent, which might not go all the way to root.  We present as close to what the user wants as possible.  It might be better to fall back to en-GB, for example, than not show any data.
        * SL: People will complain if they're in a locale that doesn't have data, and it will get fixed.  Maybe have a list of locales that support certain features with a certain coverage level.
        * FT: There's no defined set of locale that implementations need to support for Ecma 402.  I can support just 10 locales and still implement Ecma 402.  In Chrome, for example, we actually strip out some locales.  I don't think having a list of minor locales that don't have data is reason for not supporting the feature at all.
        * DE: ZB and FT seem convincing to me.
        * ZB: Actually there are 2 actions items. (1) we could say, that for any API to support a locale in ListFormat, it needs to have coverage. (2) we could talk to unicode on whether it would be possible to require data providers to always provide AND and OR if they are providing list format data.
        * SL: I'd say that if there are locales on this list that are important to people on this call, then sign up and provide data.  OR* [also other forms of AND --SL]*  is in "moderate coverage"; AND is in "modern coverage"; the short and narrow OR forms are in "moderate".
        * DE: The spec is already clear about (1).
        * FT: Can we file a bug against CLDR to have them boost the coverage?
        * SL: Maybe, but changing the coverage is a question of the budget of the people providing the data.  You're asking your vetters to contribute "OR" data.
        * FT: Can we at least signal the CLDR committee that Ecma 402 has a desire to make the change?  Hopefully that will boost up the priority.
        * SC/FB/DE: I agree
        * SL: I want to make sure the question is framed properly
        * FT: Can you take it as an action item?
        * SL: So the specifics are, for the OR list pattern in ListFormat?  Are there any other formatters that require it?
        * ZB: You can check if the formatter supports german, but you can't ask if it supports the OR pattern specifically.
        * SL: What is supported is very difficult to say.  This is just a general comment about locale support.  Until you have someone look at it, you don't know if the data is quality.  Even if you fall back to root or some other locale, the data might still be correct.
        * DE: Okay.  Another issue, [Issue #31](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-list-format/issues/31).  Should we support the Oxford Comma?
        * MB: Same problem might exist in other locales
        * SL: That should be a request to CLDR.  Who submitted the ticket?  Can you have them submit to CLDR?
        * SL: Please file a ticket to cldr.org
        * SC: If we file it on cldr.org, how does it get into Ecma 402?
        * ZB: We will look when that happens; maybe it will be in a locale tag.
    * [Intl.Segmenter](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-segmenter)
        * Big one:[ {granularity: "line"} promotes reimplementing paragraph layout in script](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-segmenter/issues/49)
            * FT: Let's say I want to draw a 3D picture.  I could call the JS API to do the linebreak and manually lay out the text.  It's WebGL formatting.
            * DE: It sounds like Miles wants to discourage this.
            * SLi: I understand the use case, but it seems like the use case is different from what I'm describing.
            * SL: In this context, we can say, it's not recommended to ___
            * SLi: Yeah, so implementing CSS in JS is what I'm trying to discourage.
            * SL: What if you have a browser that's written in JS?
            * FT: That's exactly my example.  You are programming a video game, where rendering is supported by WebGL.  We are discussing a JS standard.  So JS could be used in the context of HTML, like Node.JS
            * SL: Another example is rendering digits onto a dot matrix screen using Node.JS.  I need the line breaking algorithm to find operations for layout the text.
            * SLi: I understand that.  If you're making a device where you want to support this kind of operation, you can include any library you want.  Browsers need to include the entire standard library.  It would be unfortunate for them to have to support this.  You should implement this in a separate library.
            * DE: The reason I championed the segmenter feature is that it is already used on a fraction of the web using the non-standard V8 implementation that shipped earlier.  We should remember the original use cases that first motivated this feature.  People who go down into the low-level APIs need to be more careful about things like accessibility, but that doesn't mean we shouldn't provide the functions.
            * FT: How about this use case: you want to send an email, and you need to manually wrap lines.
            * SL: Or how about a plain text editor in your web page.
            * FT: JS and CSS are an overlapping but not completely the same world.
            * DE: (lists 2 omissions).  Are there concerns about them?
            * SLi: When previously specs have said, "use this API for this purpose but not for this other purpose", that never works.
            * DE: Do you think developers are not already using JS linebreaking APIs?
            * SLi: We shouldn't cater to these use cases; they can do it themselves.  JS is Turing-complete.
            * SL: In terms of providing access to Unicode algorithms, this is one of the more important algorithms.  It doesn't make sense to implement parts of segmentation but not others.
            * SLi: I think it does make sense.  For example, you can use word segmentation for spelling correction.  I think, "you have char and word segmenters, therefore you need line segmenters" is not a strong argument.
            * DE: I would be hesitant to remove it from the spec for the use cases I listed in the ticket.
            * SLi: But we're not removing something.  We're just not proposing it.
            * DE: I think it would be useful for web developers.
            * SL: There are cases where CSS doesn't apply, and a JS option is very helpful.
            * SLi: The discussion is mainly around use cases.  Getting agreement on use cases is most of the issue here.
            * DE: Segmentation requires a lot of data.  It's not practical to ship the data to the client.
            * SLi: When you say "JavaScript programs", it's okay for those programs to call these APIs; I just don't think it should be in the standard library.
            * SL: But then you'd need to send the dataset.
            * SLi: And that's the status quo.  This particular API paves a way toward a future of the web that is undesirable.
            * SL: I don't understand enough about the future of the web to understand why it's dangerous.
            * FT: So is the only concern here the possibility of a misuse?
            * SLi: Yes
            * FT: So, if we look at that closely, is that sufficient to proceed?  Are there any other concerns?
            * SLi: No, but we should have common understanding of what the word "misuse" means.
            * DE: Conclusion: we will follow up with more discussion on this offline with more documentation and investigation on use cases.  We should bring in the CSS Houdini people.
            * (DE and SLi talk about W3C / CSS Houdini / Font Metrics API discussions)
        * [Do iteration results describe ](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-segmenter/issues/59)*[segment*s](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-segmenter/issues/59)[ or ](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-segmenter/issues/59)*[breaks/boundarie*s](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-segmenter/issues/59)?
            * [Should "breakType" rename to "segmentType"](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-segmenter/issues/44)
            * SL: "Segment" is a more general term; "break" is more specific.  Segment to me refers to the section of text, and break is the break itself.
            * DE: Are the types associated with the segment or the break?
            * SL: You have a big text and are breaking it up into segments.
            * FT: I think we are referring to the "in-between-point types"
            * RG: Unicode specifies what these mean: "segment" and "boundary".  Are we iterating over the boundaries or the segments?
            * DE: My feeling always was that this is iterating over the boundaries.
            * SLi: If you iterated over boundaries, you would want to return both the start and the end of the segment,and that's not the current direction.
            * FB: So it sounds like high-level is returning a segment, and low-level is returning a boundary?
            * DE: High-level doesn't return anything really.
            * RG: It sounds like there's a rough consensus over making this an iterator over the boundaries.
            * FT: How about "boundaryType"?
            * RG: It seems like we have an agreement on the conceptual model.  I'd like to follow up with a PR.  If you're breaking on words, for example, do you need to distinguish segments that are whitespace, for example, compared to a segment of letters?
            * RG: Line break is the only one that associates properties with the boundaries.  The others just return the locations.
            * SL: It seems useful to see if you encountered a word or a non-word.  For example, maybe you want to get the word count.
        * [Remove state-exposing fields from %SegmentIteratorPrototype%](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-segmenter/pull/57)
            * DE: Come back to this one and the next one at a future meeting.
        * [Should segmentIterator.following(n) match a break position at n?](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-segmenter/issues/52)
* Stage 2 proposals
    * [Intl.NumberFormat Unified Feature Proposal](https://github.com/sffc/proposal-unified-intl-numberformat)
        * For Stage 3 in November!
        * New CLDR spec for "core unit identifiers"!  No more type in the unit.  Also enables custom compound units.
        * [Fallback behavior for measure units](https://github.com/tc39-transfer/proposal-unified-intl-numberformat/issues/11) (revisit?)
            * SC: Now that we don't have the type prefix on the unit identifier, is the string OK for echoing out verbatim to the user, like currency codes?
            * FB: I think the string might still not be good enough.
            * SL: If you silently fall back, you'll need to add to resolvedOptions
            * DE: My intuition matches FB's, where currency codes are more universalish.  I think we shouldn't go in the direction of exposing internals.
            * SL: This is not just unlocalized; it's unknown.
            * SC: Can we be clear about how this case with unknown unit identifiers differs from the OR pattern discussion from earlier?
            * SL: The OR pattern is known, just not full coverage.  The units would not be known at all.
            * SC: Seems the consensus is to keep throwing an exception for unknown units.
    * [formatRange/formatRangeToParts](https://github.com/fabalbon/proposal-intl-DateTimeFormat-formatRange) (Felipe)
        * Any updates?
* Newer proposals
    * [dateStyle/timeStyle](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-ecma402-datetime-style) (Stage 1)
        * New specification revision. Propose for Stage 2 in TC39?
        * [hourCycle support added](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-datetime-style/pull/12)
        * Any other concerns?
    * [DisplayNames](https://github.com/brawer/proposal-intl-displaynames)
        * Next steps?
        * [API shape issue](https://github.com/brawer/proposal-intl-displaynames/issues/4)
        * [Other issues](https://github.com/brawer/proposal-intl-displaynames/issues)
        * Unimplementable on Android? needs more info (Sathya?)
        * Implementable in practice using data on mobile devices?
        * ZB: Questions about what is actually needed? How far do we want to go in exposing "display" strings?
            * Firefox already has a generic getDisplayNames API: [https://firefox-source-docs.mozilla.org/intl/dataintl.html#mozintl-getdisplaynames-locales-options](https://firefox-source-docs.mozilla.org/intl/dataintl.html#mozintl-getdisplaynames-locales-options) 
        * DE: Action item for everybody: Document what is needed, in issues on the DisplayNames repo. Also document what device types support.
        * DE: Action item: Follow up with Jungshik and Sathya on the implementation issues
    * [navigator.ontimezonechange](https://github.com/whatwg/html/pull/3047)
        * Any more support? (need two browsers)
        * More feedback on the synchronize update vs not issue?
        * DE: We're blocked on multi-browser buy-in.
        * MB: What’s the exact requirement? A Googler already expressed support for the feature on GitHub. Does it need to be someone who commits to implementing it?
        * DE: This is implemented at the Blink level.
        * FT: Let me talk to Jungshik.
        * JG: I can talk to Jack Horton and he can redirect there for Edge.
        * DE: ZB, anyone from Mozilla?
        * ZB: I would ask Anne for a POC at Mozilla.
        * DE: Are you able to ask Anna?
        * DE: yes, I can ask Anna for follow-up.
* Let's work down our feature and bug wishlist backlog, if there's time!
* Future meetings
    * Any topics to discuss at the next meeting?
    * Should we meet December 20th, or skip for the holidays?

#### **Overflow**

If we somehow have additional time, additional features to discuss (most likely to overflow into the next meeting)

1. New proposals
    1. Additional Locale features
        1. [Intl.getParentLocales](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/87)
            1. ZB: We thought we needed this, but then we found that likely subtags was enough
            2. FT: Is this really needed?
            3. FB: Might be good for MessageFormat?
            4. FT: Not really needed to expose to JavaScript, even if it will be used within C++
            5. SC: You might have different fallback locales that have different amounts of data, where they have different slices of CLDR data available
            6. FT: I feel this is information at the wrong level. Somewhere in the system you need that, but I don't feel like it's needed at this level. Within C++, it is needed.
            7. SL: This is the model of trying to enable different features. We want to allow applications to make these calls.
            8. FB: Wouldn't this be useful for Fluent?
            9. ZB: We were able to [introduce pretty specific locale negotiation based on likely subtags](https://searchfox.org/mozilla-central/rev/d35199ef15ffa57d190886e20d5df6471faf0870/intl/locale/LocaleService.cpp#286-326) (which is part of Intl.Locale), so our motivation for proposing this is resolved.
            10. Conclusion: Deprioritize, for the above reasons
        2. [Directionality of scripts](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/205)
            1. DE: Can CSS logical properties be enough here?
            2. ZB: We need to be able to tell which direction it is. This was needed in FirefoxOS.
            3. FT: I think there's a general need for this. Right now, a lot of people assume ltr and build an exceptional list for rtl, but this is really needed.
            4. ZB: When I worked with several companies, presenting Fluent, and we talked about directionality, people usually carried a list (containing just Arabic and Hebrew) and checked for it, hard-coded (and had to do all their own string parsing). Every browser carries this, so we could expose this data. If others are interested, we could expose this.
            5. FT: This is definitely needed. Closure code has this BiDi data in Google. I used to work on Google Translate's UI, we have to find the directionality to change it in JS, so this is for sure interesting information that we should expose it.
        3. [First day of the week](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/6)
            1. ZB: We needed this for our calendar widgets, so they will be needed for any calendar widget. But, you can probably refer to collect this data separately. (also need when the weekend starts and ends)
    2. Casing in options (SC)
        1. Option keys are camelCase.  How about value strings?  "camelCase" or "kebab-case"?
        2. Locale is kebab-case normally; so is unit identifier.  Follow that precedent?
        3. Specific need: currencyDisplay: "narrowSymbol" or "narrow-symbol"?
        4. DE/MB: Keys are camelCase, string values should be kebab case. This is the general convention on the web.
        5. SC: Okay; I'll make that change in my spec proposal.  [Issue #22](https://github.com/tc39-transfer/proposal-unified-intl-numberformat/issues/22)
    3. [API for reading Unicode properties](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/90)
    4. Additional options
        1. [Need "symbo-alt-narrow" for Int.NumberFormat options.currencyDisplay](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/200)
            1. Already covered in Unified Intl.NumberFormat
        2. [DateTimeFormat: add 'skeleton' support](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/189)
        3. [DateTimeFormat: add support options.raw (aka pattern)](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/190)
        4. [DateTimeFormat: consider adding more timezone display options](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/119)
        5. [[Proposal] Compact Decimal Format to abbreviate large numbers](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/37)
            1. Already covered in Unified Intl.NumberFormat
        6. [Expose ability to produce a base form of the word used by Collator](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/44)
    5. [case fold](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/99), title case
    6. [Hyphenation](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/93)
    7. [What should we do about the specification's implementation-dependent behavior?](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/113)
