# 2022-04-21 ECMA-402 Meeting
## Logistics

### Attendees

- Shane Carr - Google i18n (SFC), Co-Moderator
- Richard Gibson - OpenJS Foundation (RGN)
- Romulo Cintra - Igalia (RCA), MessageFormat Working Group Liaison
- Ujjwal Sharma - Igalia (USA), Co-Moderator
- Yulia Startsev - Mozilla (YSV)
- Louis-Aimé de Fouquières - Invited Expert (LAF)
- Yusuke Suzuki - Apple (YSZ)
- Eemeli Aro - Mozilla (EAO)
- Greg Tatum - Mozilla (GPT)
- Craig Cornelius - Google i18n (CCN)
- Frank Yung-Fong Tang - Google i18n, V8 (FYT)

### Standing items

- [Discussion Board](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/projects/2)
- [Status Wiki](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/wiki/Proposal-and-PR-Progress-Tracking) -- please update!
- [Abbreviations](https://github.com/tc39/notes/blob/HEAD/delegates.txt)
- [MDN Tracking](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402-mdn)
- [Meeting Calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=unicode.org_nubvqveeeol570uuu7kri513vc%40group.calendar.google.com)
- [Matrix](https://matrix.to/#/#tc39-ecma402:matrix.org)

## Status Updates

### TC39 Copyright Presentation

YSV : Presenting - Alternative Copyright License ([Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1W1EAn8S4_KpC932mOXfc-2yYb9gW2fqQ0yx2_8pBBKM/edit#slide=id.p))

FYT : What's the Impact of this new License on the actual proposals ?

YSV: Champions don’t have to change nothing

USA : The 402 Spec doesn’t have the Copyright text , what’s the ecmarkup would do ? Add new Flag ?

YSV: I have to check with Brian how to coordinate the update of ecmarkup, we have till June

EAO: About in-flight proposals… at what stage do they get covered by the permissive license? Are we guaranteed that all in-flight proposals will be able to be adopted with the permissive license?

YSV:  The repositories hold a copyright ?

USA : They use the author copyright

YSV: Up until now, the only way you had a right to make a derivative work was if it was intended to be merged back into the standard. By virtue of being a derivative work, you're already covered by the ECMA copyright. I think there are no issues.

USA: Ecmarkup generates copyright text for both proposals and spec

EAO: How do champions transition the copyright to ECMA?

YSV: That appears to happen when we merge, at Stage 4. Anyone who works for an ECMA member company already grants the copyright to ECMA. The transfer happened as part of the employment agreement with you. That’s also what the IPR document is for, which is why it’s necessary to sign that document for new contributors. Right now our proposal documents are a little funny. If we have an hostile takeover on ECMA this license allow move the work outside of it. That’s what we saw with the Freenode IRC server.

SFC: One issue that we’ve been working with on 402 is that references to the 402 spec in venues like Unicode. Having the permissive license will simplify this. I’m really positive about this change.

YSV: It’s never been a big deal, but having this will make things easier in the future.

SFC: Can we share this slide deck with delegates publicly?

YSV: I would ask you not to share this one, but you can share it after the removal of the slides.

SFC: I can share this slide deck with the delegate’s list, minus the one slide. Followup will be helpful. Thanks for the presentation.

### Editor's Update

USA: Last GA plenary we had consensus on adopting the new Alternative Copyright License. We should be able to make a PR to the repo to update the version for the next edition. Apart from that, the ECMA 2022 edition was approved and submitted to the GA for adoption.

There is one open Editorial issue from RGN. He would appreciate any help.

### MessageFormat Working Group

RCA: We have some updates from the Unicode WG for a tech release this fall, using an incremental model avoiding a “big bang”. Now the main focus is the syntax. There is a continuing set of meetings where we focus on  Syntax right now..

EAO: Presenting next week on syntax, hoping for a stopping point that we can fiddle with, but the syntax is a big part of the current unknowns. I’m not sure what this will feel like after next Monday’s meetings.

### Proposal Status Changes

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/wiki/Proposal-and-PR-Progress-Tracking

SFC: Proposal and PR updates presented. The 2022 edition includes three items in Stage 4:
Intl.Segmenter
Extend TimeZoneName Option
Intl.DIsplayNames V2

GPT: This tied in with the work on ICU4X. Not sure of the current status.

FYT: Segmenter has been merged.

USA: the other two seem to have been merged. Looks like LHO it’s not working anymore on polyfills (formatjs), this means that most proposals on Stage 3 aren’t covered by polyfills.

SFC: Polyfils are important. WIll ping LHO on this topic

USA: ICU4X can be used in a web application after being compiled into WASM.

SFC: By the end of 2022, ICU4X will be a polyfill for many of the items on this list, including Display Names.

USA: Given this situation, it may be more prudent to get help on ICU4X rather than doing additional work on JS implementations.

SFC: I agree , but I believe that it still makes sense to have a JS implementation of polyfill while people do the transition. LHO has not had time lately to work on this.

It would be helpful to have more non-implementers on this call. Glad that Luis is on today. Action item on SFC is to engage others to get involved.

SFC: Stage 3 is moving nicely. Locale Info has 1 white check mark for SpiderMonkey and NumberFormat v3 is implemented on JSC and SM, but WIP in V8.

FYT: There are a few difficulties and concerns about testing. In particular, string handling in formatting is complicated. Is anyone able to help add tests, including format range, throw, etc?

SFC: Re: test coverage for NumberFormat V3, there were test coverage issues. For Intl Mathematical value, coverage is limited.

RCA: We’re working on it simultaneously with other spec improvements, so it should be merged soon. Also more tests are being added including tests for rounding behavior. But I agree that these tests should be merged urgently.

SFC: I just saw that the pull request was updated, hoping that it can be merged soon. Thank you.

EAO: This is related to the previous topic: having been one of the people on this call who used to be “not an implementer”, I recall working on a polyfill for Intl.PluralRules, and a particularly problematic issue is of getting the Test262 working on polyfills. If it were easier to use Test262 when writing polyfills, it would be easier to write polyfills, and help more polyfills get written.

FYT: Is there a reason that this is a TG2 issue?

EAO: Everything that we do , but the syntax doesn’t change.

SFC: Romulo, you have a lot of communication with the test owners.

RCA: Yeah, I was thinking here that one of the things we can do is to raise an issue on the test262 repository, and I can reach out to some of the test262 owners personally. The issue itself would be enough to generate discussion.

FYT: Sorry, please clarify. For example, working on Temporal.

USA: Temporal is a special case. EOA was talking about syntactic cases that would have completely different testing strategies.

SFC: GPT, what do you suggest re: plug and play? We would like to plug in a polyfill.

GPT : In Mozilla, we have a lot of non-test262 tests. Not familiar with all the details.

SFC: Test262 they cover a lot of js-esque side and a lot of edge case, when we test an exception, how do we handle fallback, etc.

USA: From what FYT said, I realized that Temporal has been using a custom test harness forever. Now that it’s moving to Stage 3, there’s a huge bunch of tests that need to be moved and redone. This could perhaps be improved on the test626 side to make such testing easier.

EAO: What is being asked? Will take this as an action item.

SFC: Intl DurationFormat? Any updates?

USA: Started again with some spec work , focusing on a issue raised by FYT , will address updates on open issues,
There was expectation of … Partial duration records was a bug in the spec, and a PR has been raised that should fix this. There’s nothing that should block Stage 3 work. Recently posted the PR.

FYT: Not working on this recently. Temporal has problems making implementation difficult until … is stable. Changes to DateTimeFormat needed to handle Temporal / Duration.

The particular part of changes of Intl.DateTimeformat , where they need to handle different types of patterns related with Temporal we might focus on those changes in future

USA: Jordan already reviewed and pointed that it’s awkward how dependencies of those two proposals work

USA: Will talk with the editors re: the proposal to resolve issues.

SFC: Last month there was a special presentation about Temporal.

SFC: With Duration Format, there are parts that can be written without the dependencies, and some tests can be written now. We should see what kind of short term progress can be made soon. Duration Format is one of those topics that, from the ICU4X side, is important. By Q3 three, there may be an implementation.

SFC: He believes it is completely implementable in ICU4C, although the API is different. There are pieces that need to be glued together to make it work. It’s a possible path forward on the C side.

USA: Of the 3 using the ICU4C implementation, all would benefit from a single API and implementation rather than different ways.

SFC: No Stage 2 proposals, we have some Stage 1 proposals including Unit Conversion which needs to answer some questions raised by TG1 at the last plenary.

SFC: Will be working with Younies to move some forward.

FYT: Is there any update on eraDisplay?

SFC: Louis should be giving a few updates on this later, but this is somewhat blocked on me as a co-champion to finish spec work. Largely waiting on SFC’s time to move this forward, hoping to move to Stage 2 by July.

FYT: Do you think there will be any dependency on CLDR?

SFC: The discussion was about months or just eras the answers was just ERA’s

FYT: Hoping there will not be internal dependencies.

SFC: At this time I’m not aware of any external dependencies

## Proposals and Discussion Topics

### Intl.DateTimeFormat.prototype.formatToParts ( date ) using eraDisplay - patterns or last time deletion

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-eradisplay/issues/4

LAF: normally, it is known what is going to be displayed early.

However, with eraDisplay, the decision is usually made later. You find two patterns, one with and one without the era and then depending on the date whether or not to show the era.

Era field may be suppressed at the last moment. There may be a better way (simpler) to select the two patterns and then choose which of these two to use in DT Format.

SFC: I’ve already posted my thoughts in the thread.

EAO: Why does this choice have any external visibility? Why is it not an implementation detail?

LAF: it is an implementation detail, but there are data connections.

FYT  This is not an implementation, this requirement needs to be in the Spec, the interface API won’t change but spec text has to change to reflect that

SFC: I think on this topic, it is a bit similar to the dilemma we had in Temporal. In Temporal DTF, we papered over the problem by using a whole lot of internal slots. One thing I’d like to point out is that one of the problems is that duplicating all these fields gets a little awkward.

Era is a display-time thing.

GPT: Do we have consensus on Temporal that it’s the direction we are going , adding slots ? This is philosophically changing how the object works.

USA: I agree that we should have a more composable solution if we keep extending the slots

SFC: Zibi, any thoughts?

ZB: Nothing more to add, I second with what GPT said we’re being pulled between i18n solutions and pixel-perfect solutions. In my POV the education of i18n industry to not expect the “pixel perfect solution”. At some point in a brainstorming session, we had an idea to blast it by having pixel perfect results for a single locale. For all other locales, just “do the right thing”. UX doesn’t want to understand the limitations of internationalization.

SFC: ZB’s comment is about the value proposition of the proposal, but the question itself is that of build time switches vs. runtime switches, the purpose for this proposal is that era handling is not perfect. Given that this library is widely used, we are looking for a way forward that is not necessarily pixel-perfect. That might be a mischaracterization of the proposal. Going into build-time vs run-time, the fact that just last month we said that fields … era are out of scope and we should focus on fields with era

Going back to the runtime vs build time options , from the last month discussion  I think we should focus on solving this for ERAS

We only need to add these slots in a few places for eras. Think it’s OK to add the slots, not too worried about the “slippery slope” argument in this case.
Making it work now does not preclude major rework in the future, if needed.

LAF: This was proposed because we cannot do a number of things with Intl API now

USA: One thing to point out - ignoring the question of capability, focusing on specification and implementation. It’s unfortunate if this work cannot be consolidated at least in the Editorial level , making sure that Duration format it’s structured in a way that we get away from all legacy solutions, being more open for a potential polyfill implementation.

SFC: More issues on this topic? If not, assume that we’ll move forward with what I proposed for the Stage 2 proposal.

USA: Would it be possible to work editorially to avoid the duplication. Temporal takes patterns that we had and duplicates. Addition of more slots requires
them in multiple places, not quite doubling the number of slots.

SFC: these two proposals are moving forward in parallel. They should be resolved later, not resolving at this time, but to be resolved later with Temporal.

USA: This could be explicitly mentioned for reviewers to anticipate.
#### Conclusion

Use internal slots. Try to make the mechanism consistent with Temporal once one or the other proposal is merged.

### Special Tratement for “Gregory” calendar #5

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-enumeration/issues/45

FYT: Must now include Gregorian. Temporal champions suggest that ISO-861 is more precise. Should we include both Gregorian and ISO-861?

USA: If it’s useful i can give some context on this , one of the reason that Temporal champions decided to depart form unset convention because they knew that they had to specify IS0-8601 , I fell that Gregory will behave not so differently from the ISO-861.  Do we use the IS0-8610 ? or we should keep the Gregorian calendar ?  … Ujjwal

USA: Later a completely specified calendar could be used but for now, “gregory” is usable even though it’s defined by implementation.

ISO-8601 (aka “Proleptic Gregorian”)

SFC: We are looking to Temporal spec , can we ask someone (champions) why this still like this on the spec ?

FYT: Other parts have been amended. This should not have any observable behavior.

USA there may be some edge cases in which Gregory and other implementations may have some visible differences.

LFA: Gregory is not specified, but ISO-8601 is specified. For this reason, we should refer to the 8601. At this point, there’s no observable difference between them. As a matter of fact, the current ISO calendar doesn’t stick to the standard, but we should do that moving forward.

FYT: But the status quo is about gregory, but that would be a normative change.

SFC: The reference to gregory in ECMA-402, we shouldn’t use that to influence future work.

FYT: The reason I’ve used gregory here instead of iso8601 because before Temporal reaches Stage 4, there’s no reference to this calendar.
(discussion notes here)

In the proposal we look into the available class and we have 3 options

1 . Keep this to be just gregorian.

2. A normative change to say this list must include both calendars

3. We must change Gregorian to ISO-8601

EAO: If The gregorian calendar is not specified we should use ISO-8601?

USA: For all practical purposes the ISO 8601 aligns with Gregory. However, the holes in how the Gregorian calendar should behave can motivate us to use 8601. More “duct taping” on Gregorian may make more of a mess.

SFC: Biggest difference is that Gregory has eras while 8601 has negative years.

FYT : The main diff they don’t have same
“Starting” days of the week ?

RGN: Formatting and conception are actual differences

FYT: Louis said that ISO-8601 is specified, but I disagree with him.

FYT: there are issues in both Temporal re: implementing, e.g., week of the year doesn’t have a formula in the standard.

SFC: Focus on the concrete question of the line in the proposal.

USA: There are some points in support of the 8601 and make it work without “gregory”, using that only as legacy spec behavior.

SFC: In practice, “gregory” will be on the list (along with “buddhist”, etc.) The question is therefore mostly theoretical/editorial. Either is OK, except just “gregory”. I am split between option 2 and 3. The main thing is that we should not have “gregory” anywhere in 262.

LAF: Don’t forget that at present time when you try the buddhist and japanese calendar for 1st January of year 1 you still have different results from those calendars due the fact that implementation uses Julian calendar, this is another reason that we should use ISO-8601. Being the reference calendar before the 16th century. I support the ISO 8601 and gregorian it’s a case that should be implemented after all.

SFC: Should we move ISO-8601 without Gregorian ?

1 . Keep this to be just gregorian.

2. A normative change to say this list must include both calendars

3. We must change Gregorian to ISO-8601

#### Conclusion

Use "iso8601" only.

### CollationsOfLocale() order #33

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale-info/issues/33

FYT: Conclusion was that we need to have an order, but we don’t have the information. What order should be used, e.g., alphabetic order?

SFC: TG1 didn’t want to define this, except that they agreed that an order should be used.

Alphabetic is a really good default.

FYT and SFC will take this up offline.
