December 12 Attendees:

- Shane Carr - Google i18n (SFC), Moderator
- Romulo Cintra - CaixaBank (RCA), MessageFormat Working Group Liaison
- Craig Cornelius - Google i18n (CCN)
- Caio Lima - Igalia (CLA)
- Myles C. Maxfield - Apple (MCM)
- Jeff Walden - Spidermonkey (JSW)
- Valerie Young - Bocoup (VYG)
- Frank Yung-Fong Tang - Google i18n, V8 (FYT)
- Felipe Balbontin - Google i18n (FBN)
- Zibi Braniecki - Mozilla (ZB)

Standing items:

- [Discussion Board](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/projects/2)
- [Status Wiki](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/wiki/Proposal-and-PR-Progress-Tracking) -- please update!
- [Abbreviations](https://github.com/rwaldron/tc39-notes/blob/HEAD/delegates.txt)
- [MDN Tracking](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402-mdn)

## Next Meeting

January 9, 10am PST (6pm GMT)

[Calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=unicode.org_nubvqveeeol570uuu7kri513vc%40group.calendar.google.com)

## Liaison Updates

### MessageFormat Working Group

- [Mailing list](https://groups.google.com/a/chromium.org/forum/#!forum/message-format-wg)

Link for the meeting Agenda : https://github.com/romulocintra/message-format-wg/issues/7

RCA: We are preparing for the next meeting next Monday.  SFC has been doing formalities.  We have a repo where discussion is going on. Monday we will have 3 presentations  with people  involved. People from Fluent, FBT, and Elango will share what he did on MessageFormat.

SFC: We will take the first week of january to finish presentations.

## Discussions

- [Board](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/projects/2)

SFC: Let’s start with the items with the board. Most of them are related with DateFormat and people from there are not here.

### All string literals must be code formatted #54

[PR](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/54)

SFC: FYI, use `*"string"*` for string literals in ecmarkup!

VYG: I'll take a look this week or next week

### Potential problem with data loading #17

[Issue](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-DateTimeFormat-formatRange/issues/17)

SFC: The issue is that I left a comment with formatrange where we don’t know the intent of the programmer before hand. So we need to bundle in the constructor. I got some numbers: datasize is not too big for this bug. We do skeleton resolution, so we don’t have to load the full thing.

FBN: The only data we need is three or for patterns for one skeleton. We already have the data for each pattern.

SFC: Code size, the estimate is from codesize for ICU. 48KiB of code. The rest of datetime is (explains numbers are in the issue). The size is not so bad. But we need to consider memory consumption. We need to set up these data structures ahead of time. This might be a stage 3 concern.

FBN: How will implementers deal with memory consumption? Based on your numbers, it seems fine not to optimize the data by doing something fancy in the constructor. I think it’s best to keep things as they are -- load data at the beginning.
Many of the options involve things like using a parameter/option, which feels pretty confusing. Maybe it would be better to have two different formatters for fprmatRange and formatDateTime.
I would like to hear others opinions on that.

JSW: Those size increases don’t look bad to me. DisplayNames was starting to get border-line. These numbers are also pre-compression.

SFC: What about memory consumption? Should we create the formatRange data structures even when programmer probably won’t want to use it?

JSW: We do lots of lazy initialization anyway. We could make double-secret lazy initialization, why not.

SFC: Are we happy with spec the way it is?

FYT: In construction time, if we know what the user wants, that would be the most efficient. Maybe not required because data is not an issue.

SFC: Shu (SYG) gave a presentation at TC39 advocating optimization and implementation concerns are things that can be fixed, we should not make major changes to spec because we think it will be an optimization for implementations before implementations are attempted.

SFC: When chrome parses the file, if they really wanted to optimize, they could do their own static analysis. They can get that from the javascript ifile.

FYT: No…

SFC: In principle you could.

JSW: the payoff for doing that analysis is not worth is almost always.

SFC: Understood.

RCA: Can we do a static analysis or benchmark to see the solutions between lazy loading/loading on construction?

SFC: Yeah we should avoid premature optimization. Does anyone thing we should leave the issue open? Or expect not to solve this in spec?

Conclusion: Close issue.

### About interop with dateStyle/timeStyle #19

- Issue: https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-DateTimeFormat-formatRange/issues/19

SFC: The problem here is that we have both date and time style. But what happens with range? The style is only appropriate for single date/time because it is from a pattern.  I’ve been talking with a number of ICU/CLDR engineers and it seems that this particular use case is not that seems too strong about dateStyle/timeStyle being used with formatRange. My proposal is to forbid date/time style with format range because it would require lots of CLDR work, and there are many opportunities to make an error. CLDR people has asked why we can’t just use skeletons. I talked with Markus Scherer this week and he asked if users are asking for it.

FBN: Are people using the same formatters for both date/time and date intervals? If a short date is specified, for example, and that is not specified, does the user have to resort to a skeleton or pattern? This is forward looking, and should be supported, even though we don’t have current requests

CLA: If we throw an exception and propose a new proposal afterwards to fix this.

FBN: Looking at how the two specs are written, they do not conflict. However, the implementations will require data that is not yet available.

SFC: We can keep blocking this until CLDR data is available. If we recommend that SpiderMonkey does the same workaround… Or call a type error on setting the style allows us to address this later. The most correct solution is to have CLDR data, but this is unlikely in the time required.

FBN: Not completely opposed to continued blocking. Others?

SFC: (explains the problem again to give Zibi context) Maybe the workaround is not so bad. Other suggestions have not been met with enthusiasm from CLDR/ICU folks.

SFC: Clarification that this is for format range.

ZB:  No strong preference here.

FYT:  Date and time styles are a kind of shortcut to specific a number of things.

ZB: We should consider that it should be shown the same way in all cases.

FYT: Pattern vs. skeleton is not of interest to the user. 3 levels of abstraction:

ZB: Format, the localization specifies how a value looks for formatted values. We should have the same ability for date ranges.

SFC: Overwhelming sense from others is that skeletons are enough. (SFC does not necessarily agree with this sentiment.)

FYT: It needs to be consistent.

SFC: There’s no well defined algorithm for going from a pattern to the skeleton and back..

FBN: Current is going from date/time styles to formatted values in the range. This may not be adequate, but may be close enough.

SFC: Another issue with the workaround is that it is not essentially round trip.

ZB: Doesn’t agree that there’s no value in adding the CLDR data.

FYT: Can you provide some examples of how this is important.

ZB: I can try to think about that.

SFC: We can’t expect CLDR to provide this anytime soon. Would we rather throw a type error?

FYT: Type error is thrown when the format is requested, not at constructor time. This is not obvious in what is actually wrong at format time. The problem is actually at constructor time.

FYT: It’s not really a type error.

SFC: Is it really confusing? Type error shows a problem somewhere in the

CLA: Example of throwing type error in math functions, e.g., for some specific values that are not really type problems. It’s a type error because it’s an argument sent to the function.

SFC: Is the concern that it’s type error or throwing an error or some type.

ZB: The programmer has created an object that doesn’t have the method needed.

CLA: Is round trip a strong requirement?

SFC: It may create confusion for the user if it’s not there, but may not be in the spec.

SFC: The problem is when someone passes a date to format, and then the same date as both arguments of formatRange, the output is different.  (shows example and posts it on the issue)

ZB: This isn’t a blocker. The API is the best effort, and users should provide their own data if a perfect result is expected. OK with throwing errors. Doesn’t agree that “already shipping in V8” is sufficient argument against a change.

SFC: Same as SpiderMonkey’s approach, or throw an exception.

FBN: Using V8’s current workaround is OK since it lets us make progress.

SFC: when it comes to spec, we can relax the requirement. We could also leave this as a known issue and resolve later.

FYT: Where is this defined?

FBN: The spec doesn’t say this explicitly, but the way the algorithm is defined implies that this is a requirement.

SFC: Let’s take this offline. FBN will send a link to current proposal.

Conclusion: Do not throw an exception.  FBN to work with FYT to determine whether to relax the requirement in the spec that the format and formatRange outputs are equal, or leave it as a known compliance issue until ICU/CLDR are fixed.

### Indexing month names for leap month (#55)

## PR Status Updates (Max 15 Minutes)

### Normative: Add calendar and numberingSystem options (#175)

- [PR](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/175)
- Anba found problems; FYT fixed them in V8.
- FYT flip the bit to ship it in Chrome m80. (with #351 and #349)
- Last month: JSW: Anba finished the patch I had sent out.  Only in nightly.
- Last month: DE will delegate MDN and tests.

SFC: CLA or DE or RCA will look into Test262 and MDN coverage.  FYT will update the wiki with the V8 status.

CLA: MDN is updated (https://wiki.developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/NumberFormat), but we need to update https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/wiki/Proposal-and-PR-Progress-Tracking. Test262 tests required.

### Normative: Permit relatedYear and yearName in output (#351)

- [PR](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/351)
- FYT wrote tests in https://github.com/tc39/test262/commit/79591ae6c8f13f5c558576ad58846d80f33d0f0e
- LEO wrote: "I'd like to defer this to @littledan so you can pick the best description for relatedYear and yearName in their respective table."
- FYT flip the bit to ship it in Chrome m80 (w/ #175 and #349)
- Last month: LEO: I tried to resolve the conflict in #351, but I would like to get that from Daniel, the author.
- Last month: I'll follow up offline.

SFC: Please follow the status wiki.

### Normative: Allow calendar to determine choice of pattern (#349)

- [PR](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/349)
- Covered by above tests
- LEO wrote: "@littledan would you mind rebasing this one as well?"
- FYT flip the bit to ship it in Chrome m80. (with #351 and #175)
- Last month: DE to rebase the PRs.
- Last month: JSW: Off the top of my head I don't think we [need a SM implementation], but I'm not sure.
- Last month: SRL: I think I was supposed to get a test scenario for this.  But I think the locale data might be masked.

SFC: CLA will follow up delegating Test262.

### Normative: Add fractionalSecondDigits option

- [PR](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/347)
- FYT addressed Anba's feedback
- SpiderMonkey shipped (in nightly builds)  - https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1568134
- Last month: FYT: I need to double-check with Anba if there are any other issues he has.
- Last month: SFC: Can FYT address MDN and tests for PR? FYT: Ok.

SFC: Mihai fixed the ICU issues.  It looks like the PR has merge conflicts and editorial issues open.  FYT to fix those.

### Normative: Add dayPeriod option

- [PR](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/346)
- Last month: Blocked by ICU
- SpiderMonkey patch awaiting for ICU patches - https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1569103
- Last month: blocked by [CLDR-13184](https://unicode-org.atlassian.net/browse/CLDR-13184)
- MDN issue (https://github.com/tc39/ecma402-mdn/issues/6)

SFC: I filed https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/394

SFC: The issue with this PR is that spidermonkey is waiting for ICU patches: 740 (now fixed) and 741 (CLA checked in fix this week)  IC bugs. Ecma402’s 394 is not a blocking issue.

### Normative: Fix off-by-1 error in PartitionPattern #392

- [PR](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/392)

CLA: This PR is merged ? do we need to update this PR , I can do it.

SFC: We need to have one of the editors to review it and we can merge it

LHO: There is a Normative PR that needs to be merged before we merge this to ECMA402. IT is just an off-by-one issue.

SFC: What is the web reality? Are browsers are doing it correctly? Deep inside partition number pattern, so they must be doing it correctly. This is part of theoretical spec text because everyone just uses ICU which already implements this correctly. This is essentially a “web reality” PR. Do we need tests?

CLA : We have tests for that ? if we have tests and they don’t break we can consider as A “web reality” ?

SFC: I don't think we need a test then.

LHO: What do I do then? I’m finding a lot of small bugs in the text when making a poly fill.

SFC: We need consensus to approve this PR , do we have “consensus” ? Normally we need TC39 approval for PRs but this seems like it’s so uncontroversial we can approve it for merge.

Consensus Reached: VYG, JSW, CCN, SFC.

SFC: Next step is for the Editor to review the PR and merge it.

## Proposal Status Updates

### Intl.RelativeTimeFormat (Stage 4)

- [Proposal](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-relative-time)
- [Test262 Tests](https://test262.report/features/Intl.RelativeTimeFormat?date=2019-07-10): Good.
- [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/RelativeTimeFormat): Good.

SFC: Approved for Stage 4 at TC39!

CLA: We need to rebase the PR https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/391 and wait for editor approval.


### Intl.ListFormat (Stage 3)

- [Proposal](https://github.com/zbraniecki/proposal-intl-list-format)
- [Firefox Bug](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1433306): likely to be reviewed/landed later this week
- [Test262 Tests](https://test262.report/features/Intl.ListFormat?date=2019-07-10): Good.
- [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ListFormat): Good.
- [MDN Bug](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-list-format/issues/37) Closed
- Main blocker: bug with `type: 'disjunction'` in Spanish, [#45](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-list-format/issues/45)
- Last month: JSW: Blocked by https://unicode-org.atlassian.net/browse/ICU-12863

SFC: Good news, our LPM has investigated the main blocker in other languages. YMD implement fix in ICU 67. Waiting for approval of another ICU bug (ICU-12863): https://github.com/unicode-org/icu/pull/894 JSW this is the fix you proposed.

LHO: I have one outstanding PR on list format (#47). Waiting for ZB. It is a bug fix.

SFC: Do we need to discuss it here?

LHO: no it’s uncontroversial. Ms2ger took a look. The polyfill implementation has the fix but spec does not.

### Intl.Locale (Stage 3)

- [Proposal](https://github.com/zbraniecki/proposal-intl-locale)
- [Firefox Bug](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1433303)
- [Firefox Bug 2](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1522070)
- [Test262 Tests](https://test262.report/features/Intl.Locale?date=2019-07-10): Good.
- [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Locale) Live Examples - OK
- [MDN Bug](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale/issues/70) Closed
- Previously: André Bargull (@anba) also has an implementation that is on the review queue for mozilla.
- Last month: Intl.Locale landed in SpiderMonkey!  The feature is enabled, but only if you flip a preference.
- Last month: RCA:  JVA Merged  live examples for MDN
- Last month: ZB to sort issues to v1/v2 on the Intl.Locale repository.
- Last month: Initially approved for S4, but rolled back due to editorial issue from JSW

SFC: ???

JSW: the last remaining issues: I submitted a PR for the issue of getting rid of duplicate attributes for keywords. (Per https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale/issues/82 v8 doesn’t actually support duplicates)  For doing the replacement we want to do, it requires someone making the additional changes (?).

SFC: Is this an issue that we need to fix in ECMA402 side, Unicode side or where? Could you remind me?

JSW: We can fix the problem with canonicalized language tag in the proposal. V8 doesn’t support duplicate attributes, which is an implementation issue for them. (See https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale/pull/83 for that.)

CLA: If this needs to be solve on SM side ?

JSW: I won’t say right now that what we have implemented right now is what spec should be.

SFC: You are proposing to update the CanonicalizedLanguageTag function ?

JSW: The proposal is an update to the spec

SFC: After this get reviewed and Valerie reviews, Zibi needs to “merge it ”. If we can get connect with zibbi to merge the frist PR, we then link to second PR, then anba reviews it and Zibi merge, we are able to ask for Stage 4 on February? Jeff needs to write the new one and Zibi merge the second one.

JSW: Yeah.

### Intl.NumberFormat Unified API Proposal (Stage 3)

- [Proposal](https://github.com/sffc/proposal-unified-intl-numberformat)
- [Test262 Tests](https://test262.report/features/Intl.NumberFormat-unified/intl402): Only 4.
- [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/NumberFormat): Does not contain examples for this proposal.
- [MDN Bug](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-unified-intl-numberformat/issues/50)
- [Test262 Bug](https://github.com/tc39/test262/issues/2233)
- [SpiderMonkey](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1566410)
- Last month: RCA: We only have static examples , and missing documentation for Sign Display [MDN]
- Last month: Approved for S4, but SFC pulled due to open editorial issues

SFC: I decided to wait until February to have all Editorial issues resolved. I started resolve some of those editorial issues and I’ll ask Igalia to move forward with those.

JSW: We are waiting on ICU issue to unflag on firefox.

SFC: The main ICU issue was merged last month.

JSW: I’ll wait until the ICU issue is resolved, but I don’t think that there is a spec issue anymore.

### DateTimeFormat dateStyle & timeStyle (Stage 3)

- [Proposal](https://github.com/zbraniecki/proposal-ecma402-datetime-style)
- [Test262 Tests](https://test262.report/features/Intl.DateTimeFormat-datetimestyle): 16 tests.
- [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DateTimeFormat): Options documented (Missing Browser Compat-data)
- [MDN Bug](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-datetime-style/issues/33)
- [Firefox Bug](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1557718)
- [SpiderMonkey](https://searchfox.org/mozilla-central/source/toolkit/components/mozintl/mozIntl.jsm#830)
- Previously: V8 ship with Chrome 76. In SpiderMonkey (not exposed). JV: I'm working on the MDN docs with RC.  We have an issue to track.
- Previously: JSW: dateStyle/timeStyle that we mentioned last meeting also still on the list of "we should do the minor polishing needed to ship"
- Last month: RCA - JVA started working on Compat-data this week [MDN]
- Last month: JSW: We are waiting on ICU issues being fixed.

SFC: Waiting on ICU issues or spec issues.. According to the wiki, v8 has shipped.

JSW: Let me look up the details on that.


### Intl.DateFormat.prototype.formatRange (Stage 3)

- [Proposal](https://github.com/fabalbon/proposal-intl-DateTimeFormat-formatRange)
- [Firefox Bug](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1496584)
- [Test262 Tests](https://test262.report/browse/intl402/DateTimeFormat/prototype/formatRange): Good.
- [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DateTimeFormat/formatRange)
- [MDN Bug](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-DateTimeFormat-formatRange/issues/12)
- Previously: V8 ship with Chrome 76. The tests are all in.  We are in good shape. Spidermonkey intends to implement, can’t commit to any timeline. JV: We have an issue to track formatRange for me and RC. VY: Test262 is complete; I reviewed the PRs a while ago.
- Previously: FBN: Currently this is blocked by 4 issues that were filed against ICU.  My intent is to start working on the issues in the next 1-2 months.  It means though that it is released in the Spring release of ICU.
- Last month: RCA - Interactive examples for  formatRange already landed, waiting for formatRangeToParts to be merged[MDN]

SFC: Need FBN in order to discuss this.

SFC: Out of time, so made quick mention on dateStyle/TimeSTyle #2 and #15.

### Intl.DisplayNames (Stage 3)

- [Proposal](https://github.com/tc39-transfer/proposal-intl-displaynames)
- [Firefox bug](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1557727)
- Advanced to Stage 3 in TC39 Oct meeting
- Add “calendar” option to get name for “month”, “weekday”, “quarter” and “dayPeriod”
- Last month: LEO: Working on the tests, planning to have them done before the next TG2 meeting.

SFC: Proposes that browsers ship display names but don’t ship type Month because this should be resolved in Temporal.

FYT: Doesn’t agree. Currently DisplayName proposal has 9 different types that have nothing to do with date/time. Five other types are Date/time related. Suggests to scale back the proposal to address the 5 date/time later in 2020.

SFC: would be OK. There are some “thumbs up”, and no opposition.

ZB: Align with Temporal.

FYT: Don’t stall current DisplayNames.

Consensus to move those to V2.

### Intl.Segmenter (Stage 2)

- [Proposal](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-segmenter)
- Previously: extended discussion about RGN's proposed changes. Additional deep dive meeting with ICU stakeholders.
- Previously: RGN: My plan still remains to push for advancement at the next TC39 meeting.

Pending on RGN.

### Temporal (Stage 2)

- [Proposal](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-temporal)
- Preliminary spec text checked in; waiting for additional updates from Ms2ger

SFC: Exciting updates! The significant update is that we are making progress on first class calendar support. We met Phillip and other people involved and spent 10 hours to discuss about calendar support on Temporal. String display and map need to be in sync, without it they would not be in sync.

### Default Calendar

[Issue #292](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-temporal/issues/292)

SFC: We want people to do Intl correctly by default. The default calendar was ISO. Iso is basically a Gregorian calendar with rules to avoid ambiguities like the first day of the week, the first hour of the day, etc.When someone creates a Date object, what calendar does the operation “addMonth” assume?  (SFC explains the options in the PR).

SFC: What are the committee's thoughts on this proposal? Given that we want to the best behavior on web.

CLA: On the front end, I think the problem with 4 is that browser side will produce lots of errors. Number 2 feels write, consistent API. The third option is the one I like the most.

SFC: I like 2 and 3 the best.

RCA: I agree with CLA on the 4th issue. I have been experiencing issues related to timezones and how we run things on client side. The 4th is essentially no-go. I will review more closely the draft and provide feedback on it.

LHO: I would say number 2 is the best. For headless like node, every request has different intl preference, being self contained in the API helps a lot.

SFC: Philipp prefers option 1 or 4.  I think the situation is that he won't really consider option 2 or 3 unless there is overwhelming sentiment from the i18n side that these are the best options.

