# February 11, 2021 Meeting
Attendees:

- Shane Carr - Google i18n (SFC), Co-Moderator
- Ujjwal Sharma - Igalia (USA), Co-Moderator
- Jeff Walden - SpiderMonkey/Mozilla (JSW)
- Leo Balter - Salesforce (LEO)
- Eemeli Aro - OpenJSF (EAO)
- Richard Gibson - OpenJS Foundation (RGN)
- Louis-Aimé de Fouquières - Invited Expert (LAF)
- Felipe Balbontin - Google i18n (FBN)
- Myles C. Maxfield - Apple (MCM)
- Michael Saboff - Apple (MLS)
- Younies Mahmoud - Google i18n (YMD)
- Long Ho - Dropbox (LHO)
- Yusuke Suzuki - Apple (YSZ)
- Justin Grant - Invited Expert for Temporal (JGT)
- Zibi Braniecki - Mozilla (ZB)

Standing items:
- [Discussion Board](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/projects/2)
- [Status Wiki](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/wiki/Proposal-and-PR-Progress-Tracking) -- please update!
- [Abbreviations](https://github.com/tc39/notes/blob/HEAD/delegates.txt)
- [MDN Tracking](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402-mdn)
- [Meeting Calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=unicode.org_nubvqveeeol570uuu7kri513vc%40group.calendar.google.com)

## Discussion Topics

### What rounding modes to include? #7

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-numberformat-v3/issues/7

RGN: In 402, we have a preference for concise names: short, narrow, long.  Sticking to that makes sense to me.  I therefore have a slight preference for sticking with "expand".

MLS: Hardware supports a subset of these. Some of them would be done on hardware, but others are done in software. The hardware ones are typically (e.g., arm48) roundToNearest, roundToInfinity, roundToNegativeInfinity, roundToZero (?).  I think it makes sense to do a survey.  On all these processes, the rounding mode is in a register, which is set for a process.  Typically you don't set that mode processor.  So there's difficulty of setting the hardware roundingmode without affecting other threads.

SFC: ICU does this logic in software already.

RGN: The current rounding mode is halfExpand, which I believe isn't one of the hardware modes.

MLS: Not sure.

RGN: The union of what is currently supported in ICU with CSS is all of these modes.

JSW: If we care about performance, what's the marginal difference of rounding compared to the heavier float to string?

MLS: It's about correctness.

SFC: ECMA-402 currently cites https://tc39.es/ecma262/#mathematical-value in the rounding spec; see https://402.ecma-international.org/7.0/#sec-torawfixed

MCM: It seems this arithmetic is all base 10.  So that wouldn't deal with rounding on the processor, right?

MLS: A conversion to the "exact mathematical value" could be imprecise, and tests need to cover corner cases, and I'm concerned that those corner cases could be difficult to ascertain.

LAF: I've seen in the specification that we're using the abstract modulo function, whereas there is no Math.mod function.  During calendrical calculations, you need a mod function that gives the same sign as the divisor, second argument.

SFC: My preference is to move forward with this option using the "exact mathematical value" language and the 10 rounding modes presented.

MLS: In my mind we want this feature for rounding modes in various cultures.  C-based languages have never been good for using native libraries for math.  I feel like we want to get this right.  I want us to have a robust test suite that can verify that.

RGN: Agreed.

SFC: If there are bugs in ICU, we can fix them. I wrote the support in ICU, in conjunction with an author of the <missed> whitepaper, which is one of the main double -> integer conversion libraries. SO my hope is that ICU is correct but there might be case where ICU is not correct. But we can fix those cases.

MLS: Sounds good.

SFC: Back to bikeshed question…

JSW: Expand suggests to me adding more decimal places.  Maybe "outward"?

SFC: My preference is "uceil", which LEO suggested on Twitter.

LEO: I remember RGN suggested "expand".

RGN: The only precedent I've seen is "away from zero", but that's not inline with the brevity conventions of 402.

EAO: "bigger"?

MCM: I’m surprised this group is coming up with names for rounding modes. Surely there are terms-of-art for these. People have been rounding for centuries.

LEO: I don’t want to give too much burden to champions, but it’s up to them to understand acceptance. And bring us their favorite candidate. I trust the champions to do that. As a pragmatic option.

SFC: Okay, so do we have any objections with adopting the 10 names listed on Oct 23?

(silence)

### Bikeshed: name of the "min2" option #23

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-numberformat-v3/issues/23

EAO: min2 is good.

JSW: I agree.

ZB: I agree.

SFC: We spell out "minimum" elsewhere in NumberFormat.

ZB: But this is a value, not a key.

SFC: How about `"minimumTwo"`?

JGT: I like having a digit, like `h12` and `h24`.

SFC: `"min2"` then?

(silence)

### signDisplay: missing option for a reasonable use-case #17

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-numberformat-v3/issues/17

SFC: Can we add signDisplay "negative"?

RGN: No objection.

JSW: Looks good.

ZB: Looks good.

### roundingMode w/ -0 #21

EAO: I agree with SFC; -0 is a variant of 0.

RGN: That's also consistent with 262.

SFC: Consensus to adopt my response to this issue?

(silence)

### Option name: style, width, or display? #34

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-duration-format/issues/34

JGT: I would stay away from "width" because you could end up with something that doesn't map to width.  Imagine that we were spelling out "zero".  If you have something like "width", you could never have an option that spelled out zero.  "width" implies that there is a linear gradient, and you could have an option that's not linear.

SFC: We have that already in DurationFormat as "digital".

JGT: I have a weak preference for "style".

YMD: I feel both "style" and "display" are not a good fit.  Neither one describes the purpose.  But "width" is unlike other precedent.

JGT: Given that DurationFormat and RelativeTimeFormat are incredibly similar, I would align with RelativeTimeFormat.

USA: Don't these all map to "width" in ICU?

SFC: I'd like to just pick a convention today.  We could also use it for ICU4X.

ZB: Could we choose something better in ICU4X?  If we could start fresh, which one would we choose?

SFC: I would choose "width" or "length".

USA: It would be unfortunate to deviate from the convention.  And "digital" is not strictly a width.

SFC: Okay, so how about this.  In 402, we stick with the "style" convention, with NumberFormat as the exception, and we don't use this to influence ICU4X.

ZB: I support that.

USA: I also agree.

YMD: Yeah, we can go forward with it.

JGT: OK.

### Editorship note about the Release Candidate cut of ECMA-402

Need tests for #500.  SFC to ping USA, YSZ to work on them.

### Options for smallestUnit/largestUnit and hideZeroValued #32

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-duration-format/issues/32

SFC: Move forward with option 3?

YMD: Yes

USA: Yes

JGT: Yes

https://twitter.com/Litherum/status/1289405657716645888

SFC: Okay, so we can default smallestUnit/largestUnit differently depending on if the input is a Duration or an object.

LAF: Yes

### Require options to be an object #480

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/480

RGN: I think it would be better for all APIs to coerce to object than to make only new APIs coerce to object.  That said, if we can introduce a requirement all the way back, that would be a better API than we have now.

JGT: Does this apply to Temporal as well?

RGN: Temporal should be internally consistent, and to a lesser extent 262, and Intl should be internally consistent.

SFC: We already have some internal inconsistencies, like requiring the "new" keyword on newer APIs.  I'd rather be stricter for new users; it helps find coding errors.

RGN: You're adding a new line between constructor versions.

JGT: It makes sense that we add abilities to catch programmer errors as we learn more about how the APIs are used.

RGN: The scenario I'm trying to avoid is that someone finds their thing works with older APIs and carries that into new APIs.

SFC: I struggle to think of use cases where the old behavior is valid.

RGN: Then why don't we change it everywhere?

SFC: Because I don't want to break websites.  If you made a mistake, the worst outcome is that you get unexpected string output.  It's likely that there's code that unintentionally makes this mistake.  We should prevent the mistake for new code rather than old code.

JGT: I see it as a validation feature.

RGN: Okay, makes sense.
