# 2022-09-01 ECMA-402 Meeting
## Logistics

### Attendees

- Shane Carr - Google i18n (SFC), Co-Moderator
- Ujjwal Sharma - Igalia (USA), Co-Moderator
- Eemeli Aro - Mozilla (EAO)
- Richard Gibson - OpenJS Foundation (RGN)
- Yusuke Suzuki - Apple (YSZ)
- Frank Yung-Fong Tang - Google i18n, V8 (FYT)
- Romulo Cintra - Igalia (RCA), MessageFormat Working Group Liaison

### Standing items

- [Discussion Board](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/projects/2)
- [Status Wiki](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/wiki/Proposal-and-PR-Progress-Tracking) -- please update!
- [Abbreviations](https://github.com/tc39/notes/blob/master/delegates.txt)
- [MDN Tracking](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402-mdn)
- [Meeting Calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=unicode.org_nubvqveeeol570uuu7kri513vc%40group.calendar.google.com)
- [Matrix](https://matrix.to/#/#tc39-ecma402:matrix.org)

## Status Updates

### Editor's Update

USA: New normative PR from Frank that adds microseconds and nanoseconds as required by DurationFormat. This enables DurationFormat to use the unit formatting mode of Intl.NumberFormat. (#708)

### MessageFormat Working Group

EAO: Work ongoing for the tech previews, we have the JS implementation (the Intl.MessageFormat polyfill), ZB is working on a Rust implementation and a PR for ICU4X. Mihai is also working on an ICU4J PR that would allow this to be included in the tech preview. Feel good about the JS and Java tech previews and soon they could be made public and get feedback from the programming community. No existing plans yet on how to get feedback, suggestions appreciated. Separately from the MFWG, I'm trying to get a working group for the message resource, i.e., a file that may contain multiple messages, and concerns around that. Intl.MessageFormat depends on both of these things being defined.

FYT: Question, the resource thing: is that a dependency?

EAO: The contents of a message is separate from a bundle. But Intl.MessageFormat supports a message resource, which requires that we spec out what a resource looks like.

FYT: So the ECMA-402 messageformat proposal has the ability to deal with both a single message and a resource?

EAO: As it's currently structured, yes, the ECMA-402 proposal deals with both.

FYT: Okay

SFC: Originally, the MF working group considered both parts together, but started dealing with them separately after feedback. Is there still room for the JS proposal to do both things separately? Or should we keep both of them coupled? If so, we would be delayed for Stage 2.

EAO: We can do that. I see the value there, and looking at when stuff is happening here, and how Unicode Consortium is dragging on recognizing the message bundle working group. To represent the state of affairs, should we present the bundle work separately?

SFC: If you’re convinced that it’s decouple this easily, a good thing would be to put together a presentation first for this group and next for plenary in November asking if we could split this proposal into two distinct stage 1 proposals and then proceed on the unbundled proposal for stage 2 early next year.

FYT: My concern is that the bundle proposal may have additional dependencies on something that the single message one has. When you have more dependency, that's harder to address.

EAO: As it's currently structured, there should be no additional dependency, but given that the work on the resource side of things isn't as advanced as single message handling, I don't know if the current state of affairs will continue. A new dependency might be message references, which were left out from the single message spec, which brings in additional concern. One reason I'm saying that it's fine to separate these two is that if you look at the current Intl.MessageFormat proposal, the way bundles are supported is that there's a single function to call that takes in a string of a message resource and outputs an object/map of the messages contained within it, where each message is an instance of Intl.MessageFormat. So it's relatively easy to unbundle that at the API level as currently proposed.

SFC: Thanks for the discussion. Do you feel that you have a clear path forward for making further updates here? There’s a lot more discussions to be had about the shape of this API in this group. This would be one of the main topics we work on in 2023 but also H2 2022.

EAO: Yes, and unbundling would help. I’ll start chipping away at the spec soon. When is the deadline for the next plenary?

SFC: We cannot make it for the next one I believe, but we can aim to do it in November.

### Proposal Status Changes

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/wiki/Proposal-and-PR-Progress-Tracking

FYT: NumberFormat v3 will ship in M106, so it should be available to Chromium users in September. The 106 beta version is already available, please feel free to check it out and report bugs. I’m currently working on the DurationFormat implementation, but need to catch up with Ujjwal regarding that.

## Pull Requests

### Normative: Add "microsecond" and "nanosecond" to IsSanctionedSingleUnitIdentifier #708

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/708

SFC: We don't normally want to add new unit identifiers due to data size, but since DurationFormat needs this data, we should expose it through Intl.NumberFormat.

USA: It seems useful to include these units as well.

FYT: For Chromium, adding the two units is about 15K. We need it anyway for DurationFormat.

EAO: +1

USA: Anba also gave a +1.

#### Conclusion

TG2 consensus.

## Proposals and Discussion Topics

### Web compatibility: Allow the string "true" for "useGrouping"? #74

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-numberformat-v3/issues/74

SFC: Last month we agreed that “true” and “false” should be mapped to “auto” but undo the rest of the mappings (all other truthy strings). RCA wanted to ask a clarifying question at the meeting, which is to throw RangeError for strings other than "true" and "false" that are not in the spec.

FYT: We should make the PR so that we can get an affirmative answer.

SFC: RCA is making a PR but wanted confirmation on the intent. We'll then present the PR in Tokyo.

#### Conclusion

Yes, throw RangeError on unspecified strings. RCA to make a PR.

### The resolved plural class is wrong in the current spec of PartitionDurationFormatPattern #118

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-duration-format/issues/118

USA: It was a weird edge case in plural rules. But now that we've moved to Intl.NumberFormat for the heavy lifting, this is no longer a major issue. But the PR that moves to Intl.NumberFormat doesn't get rid of the dangling PluralRules instance. So I could remove that instance and close this issue.

FYT: Hm?

USA: In order to do the work, Intl.DurationFormat used to use NumberFormat in decimal mode and PluralRules. But now that we're using unit formatting in NumberFormat, we no longer need the PluralRules instance.

FYT: Are you sure? I think I removed that line. I removed the line "let pr be plural rules".

USA: Yes, you're right.

FYT: This has a dependency on the NFv3 PR. It means we delegate to NumberFormat, but also there are resource requirements. We need to add the two additional units.

#### Conclusion

This issue seems to be obsolete.

### Normative: Make ToDurationRecord same order as ToTemporalPartialDurationRecord #117

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-duration-format/pull/117

FYT: My proposal is that we split the table, make the order the same as Temporal, and only use that table in the particular abstract operation.

USA: I also meant to convince Temporal champions on this, since this particular order is necessary for operations in DurationFormat. But I agree that eventually we should remove the duplicated operations. So in this case I agree that we could use an alternate order.

FYT: It might be a good idea for you later on to make a new PR for which particular AO we intend to replace.

SFC: The reason why Temporal uses alphabetical order is because in Date, there’s no way to know the exact order by magnitude that works across calendars. However, we have specified the order for Duration, so we could propose to make Temporal use that order for Duration only.

USA: I agree, we should talk to Temporal champions to reconsider the order for Durations specifically.

FYT: My goal is to make it synchronized to Temporal. With one table, we can't do that.

SFC: If we convince Temporal to switch, we won’t need a second table. We should talk to the champions in order to see if we can make them change the order.

FYT: That’s a bit of a hard sell, because it’s hard to change something like that post-Stage 3.

SFC: Temporal already made an ordering change and they presented it in July, so I believe this is in-scope.

FYT: If you can pull that off, then great, but at least we should avoid having this dependency.

#### Conclusion

Discuss with Temporal first so we don't duplicate work.

### Current spec does not output desired result #114

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-duration-format/issues/114

USA: It seems this is a bug that needs to be fixed. Is there anything to discuss?

FYT: Currently we have this bug, but let's assume we fix it. What does that really mean? Currently, the spec formats one way, but let's assume you format it as 4:05:06. What is the output of formatToParts?

SFC: I'd like to hold discussion on formatToParts until issue #19.

USA: I need to update the spec to remove the extra list separators.

SFC: What should be happening here is that all of the numeric units should be formatted together, and then added as a single element into the list.

### Should default style be "short" instead of "long"? #116

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-duration-format/issues/116

FYT: We should make sure to communicate well about this change, especially with other implementers.

USA: I hope we can get Intl-wide consensus here as well. Consistency with style is important across the constructors. I don't particularly care about the style we choose so long as it is consistent. I agree that "short" is the correct option. There are other places where that is reflected, but for some reason, at that point in the spec, it was "long".

SFC: In Intl.NumberFormat, we use "short" as default.

USA: I think the original spec text had "short" as default, but it was pointed out that the "short" style might be ambiguous in certain locales. This was a reason why it was decided at some point to use "long", but then we decided to go back to "short".

SFC: I think "short" makes sense as the default for DurationFormat, based on anecdotal evidence. We should drive the default based on the use cases for each formatter. For example, Intl.ListFormat uses "long" as default, because that's what we thought was the more common use case for list formatting.

SFC: The point of "short" versus "narrow" is that "short" avoids ambiguities.

FYT: My motivation to make the PR was to reflect the latest status from USA's update to TC39.

USA: I agree that "short" seems to be a sensible default.

YSZ: +1

#### Conclusion

Use "short" as the default.

### Include individual numeric parts #19

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-duration-format/issues/19

SFC: We discussed this last month; USA, are you still working on the PR?

USA: Yeah, still working on it.

FYT: I feel that we should be clear on the expected output.

USA: Maybe we could start with the Test262. I could start out by codifying my expected output in tests.

FYT: I think just put it in the README or the issue to start.

SFC: The issue is assigned to USA so I think he should drive it.

### the output of minutes + seconds and hours+minutes in "digital" format could be the same #54

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-duration-format/issues/54

USA: The value proposition of "narrow" is that it may be ambiguous. Doesn't that apply to "digital" as well? I agree with FYT's rationale. If someone displays two units, they are doing so because the context implies what the units are. If the context does not imply what the units are, then "digital" is not a great option to begin with. Or you could set hours, minutes, and seconds to always display.

SFC: +1

FYT: So these are different inputs formatted to the exact same string. Maybe when style is "digital", we turn the default for hour, minute, and second display to be "always", and allow the user to turn it off. So by default, it will always be showing all three fields.

USA: Not so sure. Since the overwhelming majority of DurationFormat is hide-by-default, I think this would create a lot of educational burden.

SFC: FYT has an interesting proposal. That’s not necessarily bad behavior. The digital style already has a lot of special cases, it’s weird in many ways so this would just add to an existing long list. I don’t necessarily think that the educational burden is too high. If anything, this might be quite intuitive. Therefore, my opinion here has been swayed by Frank. This is a good compromise.

FYT: Currently, because all the display are auto, it means that if you have the video game, the duration may be hour/minute/second, but whenever the hour becomes zero, or the second becomes zero, they display as the same thing. So you don't have the context.

USA: What I meant was that a wall clock will display only two units , always minutes and seconds and hours, The SFC statement made me think about the educational burden , but I don't agree with the full rationale. I don’t feel that’s necessary to increase that educational burden.

FYT : If we don’t change it we still have an educational burden 

USA : My understanding of digital outputs not be necessary , example when microwaves shows duration, use cases where frequency of changes are visible … 

FYT: You're assuming that the user only shows two fields. But it could be used in a place where it shows 3 fields most of the time, but occasionally it jumps to 2 fields or 1 field. The default behavior is to automatically switch depending on the data. It makes sense if the hour+minute or the minute+second are always displayed. But that is not the setting I'm talking about.

SFC: I have two comments , 1st we should talk about the incoherent results , 2nd focus on FYT it’s talking about : 

The default behavior for a descending duration is:

```
1:01:02
1:01:01
1:01
1:00:59
…
1:00:04
1:00:03
1:00:02
1:00:01
1
59:59
59:58
…
1:03
1:02
1:01
1
59
58
```

FYT's proposal it’s that all fields show by default 

SFC: So basically the proposal is for style: "digital" to set the default for hour, minute, and second each to numeric and always display.

RCA: +1

EAO: +1

USA: I still think this increases educational burden, but it's something I could live with.

SFC: It's not great if the proposal champion isn't aligned with the rest of the committee.

USA: If the developer uses "digital", they should be sure that they are configuring the formatter correctly, or setting the context correctly. So are we saving the developer from themselves, or is this dictating the best way to display things?

EAO: My view is that if we're not getting any other info, we default to assuming that we don't know the surrounding context. If you have context, you can explicitly say so. The default should be to make things not weird.

SFC: +1

USA: "digital" could mean many different things, not just hours/minutes/seconds. But since hours/minutes/seconds is the least ambiguous, it seems okay to default to them.

FYT: What do you mean many different things?

USA: It could be h:m:s, h:m, or m:s. They are all equally valid digital formats. For "digital" to pick one… it means "this is our digital". It's the least ambiguous of the three digitals.

SFC: Actually it's less code to go from h:m:s to either h:m or m:s than it would be to go from nothing to any of those three formats.

SFC: It's possible that higher magnitude units could be supported as numeric in the future, but I don't see that happening in the near term.

SFC: Are we okay with this change?

YSZ: +1

USA: Yes; I'll present it to plenary in the next meeting.

#### Consensus

Move forward with hour/minute/second defaulting to always displayed by default with digital style.

### Should the default digital non-numeric style be short or narrow? #85

SFC: I think we should use "short".

USA: I chose "narrow" because it seems the closest to numeric, and it's our best-effort option. But within the context of our option, nearly everything is an anti-pattern. If they are using that, our responsibility is to make a best effort. I don't feel strongly about this.

SFC: I think there are case that it’s maybe useful to have at least days and weeks displayed along and I don’t think they’re anti-pattern: "1 wk, 2 dy, 3:04:05". Based on our previous conversations today, we should use a non-ambiguous format by default.

FYT : Spec it’s currently more complicated, if we default to short we might reduce testing complexity… maybe not

USA : We’re switching from narrow to short , I’m not if it should affect

FYT : The right hand side you have only two possible values - short and numeric

USA : We still need the digital base , you’re not allowed to use a longer style if you use numeric, we can switch from narrow to short to reduce the ambiguity 

SFC: Anyone want to voice support or opposition?

FYT : +1 to "short"

USA: What I said , was whatever we do in this case will be the a best effort in formatting , cause there is no way to represent digitally those values

SFC : USA is neutral 

SFC : +1 for  “short”

USA : I have one compelling reason for “narrow” , this change might originate some noise in plenary

SFC: I addressed this in my comment from 1 year ago. And I think this is in the same scope as the other changes we've discussed earlier today.

FYT : I could have an issue implementation feedback that might support this - I have to look at it

#### Conclusion

Use "short"

### Too easy create incoherent result without enough restriction #115

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-duration-format/issues/115

FYT: (introduces issue)

USA : The current design  it’s the most permissive design we considered for the proposal, all designs we tried all had edge cases they didn’t work, and current design it’s the one that works. If we isolate some cases we don’t have to deal all combinations and only deal with this in digital and few others similar to what it’s used in DateTimeFormat. The current design it’s usable different from all others we tried

SFC : Two big challenges led to the actual shape of the proposal, how to deal with digital format and zero-valued fields… we arrived at a point where those use cases are solved. Now we could try to go back down and tweak things. Regarding testing (reason why FYT raised the concern) the testing surface shouldn’t be that big, because most options bubble down to other formatters that are already tested. 

FYT : The testing complexity it’s nothing to do with NF but with resu option. We need to test that we aren’t changing while getting unit options to check if they are impacted by those modifications. The implementation and complexity to run tests for all options are likely to be a problem

USA : The fact that duration as a number of units , in case of test262 we can utilize helpers to do it, being not different from what’s used on the spec where operation reads from a table. Non digital cases don’t necessarily need to test all combinations …

SFC : If you want to reduce the scope of options, we can have two on/off settings for each field: always/auto display and numeric/non-numeric, inheriting from the global style. Having only 4 options reducing the magnitude of combinations for the tests, but it would still be a lot.

SFC: Let’s figure out what next steps and path forward for this. We should discuss the testing strategy for this. Maybe talk with Test262 Maintainers (Philip C.). FYT came with a problem (an important problem), but in order to get a solution, we should chat with PFC and others.

USA : We are going to talk with tests262 folks and see how we can do this 

#### Conclusion

USA to drive the relationship with PFC.
