March 26 Attendees:

- Shane Carr - Google i18n (SFC), Moderator
- Caio Lima - Igalia (CLA)
- Frank Yung-Fong Tang - Google i18n, V8 (FYT)
- Jeff Walden - Spidermonkey (JSW)
- Manish Goregaokar - Mozilla (MGR)
- Romulo Cintra - CaixaBank (RCA), MessageFormat Working Group Liaison
- Myles C. Maxfield - Apple (MCM)
- Ujjwal Sharma (USA)
- Leo Balter - Bocoup (LBR)
- Zibi Braniecki - Mozilla (ZB)
- Richard Gibson - OpenJSF and Oracle (RGN)
- Daniel Ehrenberg - Igalia (DE)

Standing items:

- [Discussion Board](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/projects/2)
- [Status Wiki](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/wiki/Proposal-and-PR-Progress-Tracking) -- please update!
- [Abbreviations](https://github.com/rwaldron/tc39-notes/blob/master/delegates.txt)
- [MDN Tracking](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402-mdn)

## Next Meeting

April 23, 10am PDT (5pm GMT)

[Calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=unicode.org_nubvqveeeol570uuu7kri513vc%40group.calendar.google.com)

## ECMA-402 2020

LBR: I'm still looking for an editor for 2021.  I'll announce it next week at TC39.  I can't confirm if I'm able to continue the editorship. I have updates for the 2020 release cut, but I’m not sure if that’s the moment. Should I’ve 

LBR: Should I go about it?

SFC: Sure

LBR: We got some minor normative changes that JSW  worked on. I think it is good to go if we agree. We could go with the 2020 cut once we decide to merge(?) Anba’s comments. We can revisit this PR if SFC agrees with this.

SFC: I think that 2020 cut is the highest priority for us now, so makes sense to discuss Anba's PR [#418](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/418). Is there anything else blocking edition 2020 PR? I remember we discussed some issues that could be blocking relating to the calendar and numberingSystem PR. Does Anba's PR address that issue?

JSW: Yes, his PR takes care of that blocking issue, which was for making `ResolveLocale` canonicalize Unicode extension keywords.

LBR: Ideally, we don’t need to merge #414. ECMA is complaining because they want to have a cut with 3 weeks advance. ECMA262 editors (miss)
We can use the same delay as ECMA262 and we don’t need to hold too much.

FYT: Can you explain what's going on with 2020 and what the problem is?

LBR: The Intl.Locale proposal was inconsistent with the calendar/numberingSystem Options PR.  Anba raised that issue.  Anba's PR includes a fix for it. The PR 414 is a conservative move to just release 2020 without it and bring it back in 2021. But with Anba’s fix we don’t have to revert anything.

JSW: I still need to write a test for it, but no -- if you aren’t specifically aiming to test this, you wouldn’t accidentally invoke it.

SFC: Is there anything else we need from this group to move forward to the 2020 cut?

LBR: I'd like to approve Anba's PR.  I will do the merges and move the release candidate. I’d like to hear any objection (if we have) by the end of this meeting, since I’m planning to work on that with Jeff Walden and Anba to close this issue just after it.

SFC: Do we have consensus on #418?

(silence)

Consensus on #418.

## Liaison Updates

### MessageFormat Working Group

RCA: We are setting up a Chair Group.  We are 3, and we are expecting more people to join and make this core group to facilitate and make it easier to move forward on decisions and work that needs to be done offline.

SFC: have you been following up with people who expressed interest in joining the chair group?

RCA: I'll ping them back in a week if they're interested to join.  I will send reminders.

SFC: Any other questions to RCA on MessageFormat WG?

(silence)

## PR Status Updates

### Normative: Add fractionalSecondDigits option #347 Update

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/347
Chrome implements behind the flag. Got approval to ship but cannot flip the bit due to changes of chrome guidance on tree due to the COVID19
Pending ICU Bugs are fixed for ICU67 (schedule to be released 4/22)
https://unicode-org.atlassian.net/browse/ICU-20967
https://unicode-org.atlassian.net/browse/ICU-20738
https://unicode-org.atlassian.net/browse/ICU-20739

SFC: According to the status spreadsheet, we are still waiting for  tests from V8. Frank, can you give us updates?

FYT: There are bugs in ICU that were blocking this, and they are in ICU 67.  For Chrome, I cherry-picked those fixes, which are behind a flag. I got approval to ship, but due to COVID-19, they aren't allowing new features in this release.

### Normative: Add dayPeriod option (#346)

FYT: This also had ICU issues, but I don't think they're fixed in ICU 67.

SFC: I don't remember having other ICU issues that aren't fixed yet.

FYT: There’s issues with formatRange. This didn’t show up before we got it to play well with formatRange, but when we did, the issues were revealed. All in all, this isn’t mature enough, but we’re working on this.

SFC: I try to prioritize fixing ECMAScript issues in ICU, but I guess this one slipped.

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/346

SFC: Related to the add dayPeriod, we have a waiting sign on MDN.

RCA: I think this was fixed, but I’ll double check documentation and update page properly

SFC: Do we have any status update from SM?

JSW: I think those are supposed to be fixed, I’ll double check.

SFC: 66 doesn’t have any of those updates. 66 is more like 65.2. It includes some critical bugfixes, but 67 is the real deal.

JSW: I thought it was released a week ago. In this case, we’d be working on 67.

## Proposal Status Updates

### Intl.ListFormat
https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-list-format

SFC: Spanish fix in ICU is included in ICU67

ZB: ??

SFC: While 2020 is an actual paper document, what browsers actually implement doesn’t need to correspond to that. So while we could merge this in later, it’ll have to wait a year before it’s published on paper.

### DateTimeFormat dateStyle & timeStyle
https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-datetime-style

SFC: This another proposal from ZB. Do we have any blocking issue there?

ZB: That PR is ready to be merged and I’m planning to ask for stage advancement in June. Also is this planned to be shipped on SM soon (?)
Apparently we don’t have 2 implementations yet(?), but I’ll try to port some implementation from Moz.Intl and check for feedback(?)

SFC: The CLDR issue regarding skeletons being locale-dependent, if accepted by Peter, would resolve this with a small amount of spec work.

### DateTimeFormat formatRange
https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-DateTimeFormat-formatRange

SFC: This is showing that Sathya is the champion, but I think FBN is championing this now.

SFC: I had a question, I just hope these issues get resolved. I’ll follow up with Felipe to make sure they have enough time to work on this. If they cannot any longer work on this, we’d choose someone else to champion this instead to finish this up and merge it. 

### Intl.DisplayNames
https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-displaynames

FYT: The scope got (?) without, because of the Gregorian calendar and leap month issue. We got it removed and shipped on V8(?).
What's Mozilla’s take on this proposal?

ZB: AFIK, we are ok with this proposal moving forward. Anba was worried about the size increase to ship for this proposal.

JSW: I think that’s largely right and we’re just wondering if we can slim down the needed locales and we’re facing some pushback there.

ZB: the outcome is that (?) but there’s not going to be a blocker for this.

JSW: I don’t remember seeing that.

ZB: I can follow up on this but I’m p sure we’re okay to just land this. I can revive the internal thread and make sure everyone is okay with this. There’s one complication: we cannot commit to when this lands. Due to COVID, Pheonix has been delayed so we don’t have an ETA.

FYT: That’s totally understandable.

### Intl.Segmenter
https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-segmenter

RGN: I’m behind schedule on this one. There was a request to get more time to review, but it still hasn’t happened yet.

SFC: I’d ping the stage 3 reviewers to make sure that’s taken care of. During the last year, we answered a lot of design questions, and it’ll be good to have it on Stage 3. We had some questions on PR by Mozilla a while ago. Are those resolved?

ZB: API is approved from our perspective. We don’t know which approach we would take, but the increase of bundle size is not a blocker for this proposal anymore.

FYT: I have a question. I think the latest revision of this from Feb. Did we appropriately update test262?

RGN: Any existing tests need to be updated.

FYT: So we need to proceed to Stage 3 and _then_ update the tests?

SFC, RGN: Yes

SFC: I can foresee some people having reservations about the way we return Iterable vs Iterator

RGN: What’s the alternative to not have a temporary object?

SFC: Return the Iterator directly on Intl.Segmenter.prototype.segment, instead of an Iterable

RGN: if not that, it’ll have a self-iterator thingie?

SFC: that’s also an issue with Number.range(). It makes sense to raise this on a plenary.

RGN: I’m not sure if I’ll be able to make it.

FYT: In the current spec, there is a concept called `isWordLike` but there’s no definition. It’d otherwise be really difficult to implement this.

RGN: implementations can pull this straight from the ICU.

FYT: what do you mean by “word-like”? Where should that be defined? If there’s an external spec, we should be linked to it.?

RGN: It's an ICU concept, as far as I know.

MCM: Is it okay to have normative text that's an internal implementation in ICU?

RGN: it’s essentially an attribute that comes from the ICU break iteration format. We cannot quote ICU normatively, but anyone who’s not using ICU would have to substitute their own semantics. It’s too useful to remove, since I tried to pull it out once.

MCM: If it's too useful to remove, can we at least file a bug on another standards body to have them define it so that we can reference them?

RGN: I’m not sure. Where do the definitions of Locales come from?

FYT: In BreakIterator, it comes from UAX 13 (don't remember the number).  I don't remember `isWordLike` being defined.

RGN: that’s because it’s not in UAX 13. That technical report defines a word boundary, and if you look into the default set of rules, from which ICU infers these concepts. It doesn’t define word-like, it just references boundaries with word-granularity. ICU adds some extra information here.

SFC: I filed an issue to follow up on this, [#100](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-segmenter/issues/100)

FYT: I checked out the enum, but it doesn’t say word-like anywhere. I’m fine with using word-like, all I believe is that it should be well-defined.

FYT: to be clear, I’m fine with word-like, I just ask for a better definition.

MCM: I agree with FYT

SFC: RGN should follow up to make sure FYT and MCM's comments are addressed.

FYT: I don’t see it anywhere in ICU.

RGN: I’m looking for it as we speak.

FYT: let’s address this asynchronously.

### Intl.DurationFormat

SFC: We need to add this into the wiki page.

https://github.com/younies/proposal-intl-duration-format 

SFC: We need to do some update in the repo since it get updated from last TC39 meeting.

USA: There is some work to do that and this is important because it would help with Temporal proposal. 

SFC: the inference from last TC39 meeting is duplication of functionality and why is Duration special, which is definitely a fair point, but I think Duration as a top-level object mandates this.

USA: Also, noting the fact that Temporal.Duration as a top level class is something that’s generally agreed upon. So having top-level Duration format on ECMA402 is not an an outlandish idea.

SFC: I’ll follow up with Younies privately.

## Discussions
 
### Issue Triaging

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/wiki/Issue-Triaging

SFC: all issues that come in have a component label and a status label, since GitHub doesn’t let us have custom fields, so we’re just using labels. We have 6 components and 5 status and each issue can fit whatever buckets. The chair can discuss it. Issues that are labelled “comment” need to be addressed and discuss means we need more discussion. Help wanted and In progress are as normally used. The last one is blocked, for something that’s blocked on something else.

JSW: perhaps comment and discuss aren’t the best names, because they can easily be conflated.

SFC: I chose the names that are currently used because they’re in alphabetical order.

### Intl.NumberFormat V3
https://github.com/sffc/proposal-intl-numberformat-v3

SFC: I did all the required work already, I’m discussing this today to address concerns before I bring this to committee next week. I uncovered these while working on unified NumberFormat. I could have made separate proposals for each issue, but I decided to club them together based on precedence. It’s called V3 because unified NumberFormat was supposed to be V2.

ZB: General concerns

I have two classes of issues. The first: it seems like you’re changing the way ECMA 402 works. ECMA 402 historically has been a reactive group, which focussed on pain points and used these issues to pick the simplest way to do it via ICU and mould it into an API. For the first time, we’re making issues and backreferencing them in a proposal. We’re increasing the API surface for the sake of completeness.

DE: That's not a fair criticism; a number of these do have issues, not filed by Shane, that motivated them, and represent common problems. I think this is better to go point-by-point.

ZB: I see your point, but we didn’t quite make the case for how it’s a real pain point for developers and not possible in userland.

SFC: all the issues are based on previous discussions, so that’s not the case. My hope is that every issue here is that each of them have those use-cases. A lot of these issues come from my extensive experience working with NumberFormat. A lot of these clients are Google-internal so I cannot freely share the exact code, but the intent here is to bring attention to NumberFormat issues that I face as an i18n engineer. I filed said issues because they’re genuine pain points, not things that are required for mere completeness.

ZB: what I see here is that Google is in a way short-circuiting to ECMA 402, by progressing proposals that satisfy internal needs without appropriately doing the legwork by exposing their internal use-cases.

DE: I don’t know if anybody is saying “trust me”. Let's make sure that we ask for all proposals to be well-motivated, not treating them specially because it's Google raising them.

MCM: I'm sympathetic to Zibi's concern, and to turn this in a constructive direction, what process could we follow to ask for the right things from proposals?

ZB: I’d like to treat Google internal needs as we treat any other client needs. It feels like this proposal rests on non-public use cases from Google.

SFC: it pains me a little bit to hear these needs to be tagged as needs that purely affect Google, since these are general i18n concerns. Also, I’ve provided use-cases for all of the issues I’ve filed. If those use-cases aren’t sufficient, then we should talk about it there, but the use-cases are available and discussed-upon. I think I’ve already given arguments for each use-case, so while it is fair to contest specific use-cases, I don’t think it’s fair to say that there aren’t use-cases available.

FYT: do you need any extra information in the current thread?

ZB: Frank: yes. Having use-cases that clearly state what’s missing is a useful bit of information. Looking at formatRange, I disagree. Web developers aren’t discussing what you reported. There is a lack of activity on the formatRange issue. This just isn’t how ECMA 402 works historically speaking. I am not contesting specific features like formatRange, I’m just concerned about the shift in MO here. I’d like to see more discussion around the use-cases. I want to ask if as a community, are we okay with indefinitely increasing the API surface, or are we trying to strike a balance here?

MCM: I agree that there needs to be a balance, so since we cannot remove stuff, we should consider the costs of adding surface. That said, it doesn’t necessarily mean that we will ever stop adding new features. Since languages evolve, it is conceivable that ECMA 402 won’t ever be done.

ZB: I think we could answer  the question about if it is worth it increase API surface for small nomber, but legitimate uses cases?

FYT: I think the problem is that there’s a lack of context. You need more context in the issue tracker. Here is my suggestion: whenever we are, as TC39 delegates, voice the concerns of our organization, we could ask the appropriate people to weigh in on the GitHub thread as well, for added context. This is something we could all do moving forwards. As engineers, we’re all problem solvers. What I think we need is for more people to be a part of that problem saving process. Let’s slow down a bit and work through the process instead of coming up directly with a solution.

ZB: The only thing I’d add is I’m okay with moving fast if we recognize a shift and agree that it’s a good idea.

MG: I agree with Frank since that’s close to what happens in W3C. It’s okay to cater to internal needs, since those have appropriately been reflected as use-cases.

SFC: I agree with everything that was said here, my POV is that I did all those things already, The only problem is that I didn’t have others weigh in, but apart from that, appropriate work has been put into it. That said, I’m not against further discussion on the issue tracker. Is this a more proactive approach than what we’re used to? Yes and no. A lot of features we released in V1 were useful for a limited set of users, but this moves us to a better place. The question isn’t that it is proactive or reactive, it is just that if it deserves to exist in the spec, and we can individually contest that.

MCM: Since it is not possible to have a model to say if the cost of maintaining an API based on its demand, I think we can have an alternative. (missed) 

SFC: Are there any more meta-concerns about this?

DE: lack of activity is a weak signal. We can do more as a committee, reaching out to a larger group for feedback.

SFC: I can provide more information and context justifying the use-cases on the issue tracker, I just haven’t had enough time to do that yet. I believe this proposal should be held to a similar standard as compared to previous proposals.

CL?: There’s a gap between the ECMA 402 GitHub and developers and a lot of developers are unaware of a lot of this discussion. We probably need to do a better job bridging the gap.

ZB: I agree that this can be a problem that we can address. FWIW, I have faith in the solutions proposed, we just need to do a better job of gathering and dealing with the feedback.

RCA: Sometimes we conform to the API surface, and if features don't exist, we don't file issues, we just figure it out.  For things like loans, mortgages, etc., we need currency ranges.  It's a use case and I want to dig into what we do for that.

#### 1. formatRange (#393)

SFC: I haven’t seen many concerns about this, I know clients inside and outside Google who use this, and it is a natural extension of (??) which is already stage 3.

SFC: If you have general feedback, we can go through that now and come back to format Range

There’s two use cases I considered previously, in Google maps and Uber. Romulo spotted a third use-case relating to mortgages in the baking sector.

JSW: LGTM

FYT: need to mention a meta thing: we tend to generalize stuff, which is okay, but the question is: how much do we need to generalize? Shane did a reasonable job here, but we should focus on the level of granularity that is required here.

SFC: Regarding generalization, I was thinking in doing so based on what we already have on DateTimeFormat. This don’t only includes dollars, but also time range for delivery apps, etc.

FYT: We do see user needs, and we also generalize it, which is a reasonable thing to do.

ZB: I'm not very concerned about this one. I'd like to establish, what does it mean that ICU has it and CLDR doesn't?


SFC: CLDR specifies much of this, but there are a number of open questions. CLDR has data and range formatting guidelines, but they're not quite specific enough to say what happens here. CLDR doesn't talk about whether CHF is repeated or not, but it provides the symbols.

ZB: OK

DE: In general, the locale databases that we have in ECMA-402 don't have to correspond to what's in CLDR. I like using that form, rather than saying things are all "implementation-defined", so it can be more realistic to have an independent, compatible implementation.

ZB: the concern is that the only thing we have is in ICU, which works for the major players, but if CLDR is behind on this, there ought to be a reason, but I’m convinced with this particular proposal.

#### 2. formatSelect (#397)

SFC: Does everyone agree with the case I made here? It was unintuitive, clunky and inefficient in a way explained in the thread. If we agree with the post, that’s a reasonable thing to do, we can discuss this further and I can pull this from the proposal.

FYT: Is this just a short-cut to two calls?

SFC: Yes and No. With my proposal, the NumberFormat conforms to the plural state.

FYT: ???

SFC: My response to that is that NumberFormat already depends on PluralRules, so it does not add a dependency that way. In certain cases, you didn’t have that dependency, and this proposal comes with that concern, and I understand if people aren’t convinced with the idea of adding said dependency.

FYT: We already have lower level construction. I think there is no need for this shortcut to do anything.

ZB: it doesn’t enable something that wasn’t allowed, this makes Certain things easier to do, which I agree with. I don’t agree with Shane’s solution, which I think is okay for Stage 1.

ZB: a lot of existing solutions get this wrong. I agree that this is a good exploratory direction, as proposed by Shane, and we should move in that

FYT: I just feel that this kind of things should be driven by education.

MCM: I disagree with that. APIs can be well-designed or badly designed. Well-designed APIs have correct behavior by default. Our job is to make an API that doesn’t require developer education to use correctly.

FYT: but we’re not talking about…

SFC: I think we have some agreement about this being a problem space that we agree exists. I’ll make that more clear in the proposal. This is my originally proposed solution, but this could very well change moving forwards.

#### 3. Grouping options (#367)

SFC: the current solution isn’t expressive enough. This is already implemented in ICU and backed up by CLDR data, and I think that should be sufficient.

JSW: I would say based on previously looking on grouping issue (???)

SFC: that sounds like a Stage 2 concern. Let’s focus on Stage 1 concerns.

FYT: I strongly support this, when we shipped Unified NumberFormat, we had a lot of bug reports in Chromium, mostly for Spanish, regarding this. I can list out all the bugs on Monorail, but basically, this is much needed.

#### 4. New Rounding/Precision Options (#286)

SFC: We have compact notation that uses fraction and significant digits and I’m proposing to give more options to developers to control how rouding should be done.

DE: A new fintech company requested the way we apply the rounding  (rounding up or down) ???

SFC: If you could make them file an issue or a comment in the repo, I would be able to follow up on that.

#### 5. Scale Option (#334)

SFC: this already implicitly works for percentages, but the idea here is to generalize this for currencies and everything else.

DE: this is a real problem that people come up with a lot when dealing with BigDecimal, so it’ll be nice to have.

RCA: we could really use this change as well.

#### 6. Decimal (#334)

SFC: if you pass in a big long number, it is casted to a double and it loses precision.

DE: this was discussed when we discussed BigInt, this would be great to have, improves semantics but also basically fix a lot of issues without needing a top-level decimal type for it.

JSW: I think this ties in really well with scale.

RCA: the last two will help us a lot since we face portability issues. This would help us shape number APIs.

SFC: do we have agreement that all 6 parts are things we agree to be contenders for Stage 1?

FYT: I have some concern about part 6. I don’t think I want to solve the problem of passing in any Decimal syntax. I don’t care about COBOL.

SFC: that sounds like a Stage 2 concern to me.

FYT: we shouldn’t invent any syntax, we should just use whatever syntax JavaScript already uses.

DE: there’s a bunch of Number syntaxes in the JS spec, we should choose one of the several different number syntaxes and stick with it.

SFC: can we agree with just the problem space here? (that being that decimals lose precision where they shouldn’t).

I’d make it clear in the proposal.

Do we have consensus?

Thumbs up.

