# 2026-05-07 ECMA-402 Meeting

## Logistics

### Attendees

- Dan Minor (DLM) - Mozilla
- Chris de Almeida - IBM (CDA)
- Richard Gibson - OpenJS Foundation (RGN)
- Shane Carr - Google (SFC)
- Eemeli Aro - Mozilla (EAO)
- Johan Røed - Invited Expert (JRD)
- Henri Sivonen - Mozilla (HJS)
- Jesse Alama - Igalia (JMN)
- Philip Chimento - Igalia (PFC)
- Yusuke Suzuki - Apple (YSZ)

### Standing items

- [Discussion Board](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/projects/2)
- [Status Wiki](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/wiki/Proposal-and-PR-Progress-Tracking) -- please update!
- [Abbreviations](https://github.com/tc39/notes/blob/master/delegates.txt)
- [MDN Tracking](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402-mdn)
- [Meeting Calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=unicode.org_nubvqveeeol570uuu7kri513vc%40group.calendar.google.com)
- [Matrix](https://matrix.to/#/#tc39-ecma402:matrix.org)

## Status Updates

### Updates from the Editors

RGN: Tracking progress upstream in 262 with Temporal PR. Not going to make the cut. So the 402 aspects won’t get in, either. But I am reviewing it, once upstream makes it.

PRC: You mean ES 2026?

RGN: Yes.

PFC: The cutoff was at the start of March meeting. Not expecting to get into ES2026.

RGN: Formally, we haven’t had a TG2 meeting since then. I don’t want it merged into 402 but not 262.

PFC: I see.

### Updates from the MessageFormat Working Group

EAO: Nothing really. Work is quieted down.

### Updates from Implementers

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/wiki/Proposal-and-PR-Progress-Tracking

DLM: Anba has finished Intl.LocaleInfo. They are in nightly firefox and will ship in the next release.

SFC: Relaying update from Frank. Locale.prototype.getVariants is shipping in Chrome 149.

YSZ: Time zone canonicalization proposal. Progress on Temporal.

SFC: We don’t have Temporal on the wiki. Intl.LocaleInfo spidermonkey check.

### Updates from the W3C i18n Group

EAO: Question about Intl.PersonNameFormat. Was that 402?

SFC: I saw there was an issue.

EAO: Pujab (?) made that. This could be considered for HTML, not just JS.

SFC: 2 questions: sentence case (title case, sentence case), and appetite for CSS to pursue any changes there? Is that a topic?

EAO: Not aware of that having come up. Can only attend some of the meetings. Not aware of activity around this at W3C.

SFC: Since you’re the liaison there, if you have the opportunity to raise the issue and bring back updates, that would be welcome.

SFC: Wanted to bring up another issue regarding Segmenter. There’s a CSS option `line-break: anywhere` and the specification seems to mean “break at a grapheme cluster boundary”, so do we need to implement it in the ICU4X linebreaker? Not well-tested.

EAO: Have you filed this as an issue with CSS WG?

SFC: Don’t know the process.

EAO: I’m also not sure. That would be the next step. The role of the WG would be for CSS WG to reach out to them. Also goes for the sentence case question.

HJS: Communicating CSS: best to file a GitHub issue on their spec without going through the i18n WG in-between.

CDA: https://github.com/w3c/csswg-drafts/issues/, label with css-text. I brought up the subject with someone from the WG. Some folks felt we should pursue it there first. The WG rep felt the opposite. Would like to see progress in either venue.

SFC: Next step is: someone comes up with a wholistic proposal across teh web platform for title case and sentence case. Here’s CSS, here’s scripts. Does this vision seem appropriate? That was my sense from last time we met. We need to communicate that clearly.

## Proposals and Discussion Topics

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/projects/2

### Stable Formatting for Stage 2?

EAO: I want to advance this to stage 2. Update about a year ago. I presented a plan for how to proceed, including API specifics. Including Intl. As I was preparing the spec text, I came across a bunch of places where I thought what was presented previously is not what we wanted. Changes discussed and requested at last plenary that are now implemented. So stable formatting is weirdly between TG1 and TG2. It’s about providing TG1-ish behavior for TG2 interfaces. It makes sense for it to be discussed here first and then in Amsterdam in a couple of weeks.

#### Use Intl.STABLE instead of null

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-stable-formatting/pull/21

EAO: How do you trigger this behavior? I propose we use the value null as a locale identifier. Alias for zxx for “no localizable content”. This idea got pushback, because it sets up situation where null and undefined have different behavior. Alternative in this PR is to use “zxx” as the identifier for stable behavior. We also provide a constant, Intl.STABLE (all caps), which has the string “zxx”. New Intl.NumerFormat with “stable” for the locale gives the desirable behavior.

SFC: This nicely avoids some behavior with null. Why use a well-defined string. What about a symbol?

EAO: What’s the benefit?

SFC: “zxx” is inside the space of BP 47. CLDR hasn’t really given us permission to use this with that semantics. We can say “zxx” means “no localizable content”. But then 402 is defining what “no localizable content” means. Maybe that’s the case but we should clear this with Mark Davis. But with a symbol, it’s purely Ecmascript behaviour.

HJS: How this flows end-to-end: preferable to have something in BCP47 space. Suppose aspects…if we want to use this for stable formatting, testing pipeline, if we want stable data that goes through the same code throughout, we need to pipe this through to ICU4X and so forth. It should be able to go into an ICU4X locale. So a magic value that’s not in the BCP47 space is more problematic than a valid value, known to be OK for this purpose.

EAO: If we have a constant, Intl.STABLE, then discussions that reveal an alternative identifier is better, it would be straightforward to change this. Changing the locale code would be easy. For testing, there might be places where we want to support other syntax on “zxx” locale. I don’t see how we end up in a situation where there’s some BCP47 value for this. And if we use Intl.STABLE as a way to get at that value, I don’t see why Intl.STABLE has any other value than the canonical BCP47 value.

SFC: Enough reason to use `zxx` as long as CLDR and Mark Davis give a green light. Make sure we clear it before plenary in 2 weeks.

EAO: I don’t see why we need to get sign-off; we should cooperate.

SFC: I want to make sure CLDR doesn’t have something else in mind for “zxx”. Probably not, but worth clearing it with them.

EAO: Sure. I’ll file an issue in Jira. 

#### Define behaviour for Intl.Locale

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-stable-formatting/pull/22

EAO: filing as a PR than as a spec text update…now, when we write spec text, we do indeed have fallback behavior for pretty much everything. And it looks like the stable behavior we want. The only place I want to diverse from that is default calendar, where we…where calendars we should get should be iso8601 rather than gregory. Do we need explicit spec tet for intl.local?

PFC: We’ve previously discussed iso8601 is not intended to be formatted with Intl. Might be a problem returning that instead of “gregory”. Not sure I agree that iso8601 is not intended to be formatted. You get output if you pass ID = “iso8601”, but it is a concern we’ve previously discussed.

EAO: Noting that we require spec text saying “iso8601” to be supported, noting that the proposed behavior for”zxx” is the same as “iso8661”, …

HJS: We even required the shape of the data to be maintained. Argument that “you aren’t allowed to use that calendar with the formatter” if we’re deliberately saying calendar-specific behavior for formatting with iso8601 should remain what it is now in CLDR there may be other reasons to say “gregory” but the concern was that this can’t be passed to a formatter isn’t a good one.

SFC: We’ve had a loose, semi-formal distinction between machine calendar and human calendar. Certain rules about human vs. machine calendars re: annotations, and which operations. Human calendar has sucess/failure in all cases. But for machine calendars, … PlainMonthDay, format it with a formatter that works or doesn’t work…if you have an ISO monthday and use a human formatter, that fails if the calendar doesn’t match, but then it works if the calendar matches. We have invariants regarding these. If this is…I can see cases where, if a developer is using “zxx” for testing, and then “en” is used at runtime, then some of the behavior you get from Intl may produce different semantics. Not sure if this is actually a problem. I’m raising this as a class of concerns if iso8601 is default for “zxx”.

EAO: My goal is to get alignment with existing text for Intl.supportedValuesOf which, for calendars, refers to the AvailableCalendars AO, which states in 402 that the list must include “iso8601”. We do have explicit reference to “gregory” in a couple of places. In ToLocalTime specifically as a default response, calendarsoflocale AO. Annex for implementation-dependent behavior states: the following aspects are implementation-dependent, the calendric calculations other than “gregory”...which I’m now realizing, is this changed by Temporal? Are we now specifying how these calculations happen

PFC: It doesn’t change ToLocalTime. It probably should, but that would require more investigation about whether it’s even possible. And possible with the set of AOs that we introduced in era/month code. Not certain of either of those.

EAO: Meta point: it would behoove us to align…we have a couple places where we use “iso8601” and “gregory” in some places.

PFC: ToLocalTime should probably not refer to the gregory calendar there. Separate question.

EAO: For stage 2, any opposition to preferring iso8601?

RGN: Strongly in favour.

SFC: Question that needs more thought but not a stage 2 concern for me. Having something there that’s reproducible…we need more investigation, make sure it’s well thought through.

#### Use easier-to-specify stable behaviour for DurationFormat

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-stable-formatting/pull/23

EAO: Originally intended for stable formatting to emit the “P” strings not meant for human consumption. But working on this, I realized that DurationFormat is actually specified in terms of NumberFormat and ListFormat. They rely on NumberFormat unit formatting, and then concatenation with ListFormat. So to affect DurationFormat output, you need a new code path for just that. But we’re defining unit formatting, and list formatting, the combination of those allows for stable output. More sensible to use that rather than using new text. That’s functionality that does’t exist on the platform. IF that’s desirable, it should be a 262 operation rather than a 402 operation.

SFC: Good observation. A couple of question. Digital durations?

EAO: Use colons as delimiter.

SFC: Hardcoding colon, ok. And how are we dealing with units with long and short widths…I assume you’re doing stable formatting unit…how does this reflect long and short unit width? If a goal is testing, then spelling out hour, minute, second then this might vary a lot by locale.

EAO: Current spec text always uses unit identifier string regardless of width. In the README it says that the short unit identifier is a locale-independent string derived from SI units.

PFC: Operation you’re talking about to emit “P” strings already exists in 262 (Temporal.Duration.prototype.toString). If the principle of stable formatting is human-readable text but stable, then what you’re proposing is fine.

RGN: For what?

PFC: To not use the  “P” strings.

RGN: I’m of the opposite opinion. The “P” strings should be emitted. I’m OK if 402 has a new branch in the spec. We can clean that up later. Rather than committing to the wrong output.

DLM: Use NumberFormat and ListFormat for this. In agreement with EAO’s proposal. Especially for testing.

SFC: This is an interesting question. I was of the opinion that stable formatting should use a well-defined format, and do something else only if required. With DurationFormat I’m mixed. We specify it to use ListFormat. But that’s just a thing we specified. It would be valid for someone to use DurationFormat…similarly for sequence units. I propose it as a union of list and number. Someone could come back with another case: duration is not actually a proper composition of list and number for this locale. That’s reasonable, we can land new spec text for that. We largely did that to help implementations. But we’re trying to reflect real-world usage. DurationFormat implemented on top of List and Number isn’t necessarily going to be the case forever. That said, using List and Number is a well-defined option for stable formatting. More human-readable. We’ve been going in the direction of stable formatting being human readable because of testing. Using a “P” string is of a different nature than a DurationFormat string. For example, there are no line break opportunities. I’m not sure one way or another. But I lean toward EAO’s proposal;.

EAO: This will be discussed at TG1. Need to take a look at what’s made available in Temporal.

RGN: Does DurationFormat inherently use the list approach?

EAO: Yes.

RGN: That might change my opinion.

EAO: As written today, yes. That’s what made me realize that to produce P strings, we need something else. Not just a combination of List and unit formatting.

RGN: FormatToParts…ListFormatParts. That probably sways me. DurationFormat has been defined to return list format output. P strings are already accessible. OK. I realize now that it’s not something that varies across locales.

EAO: This is matching closely the LDML spec. How do you do duration formatting?

EAO: RelativeTimeFormat is completely differently defined. P strings is the natural thing to do there. The only challenge is that there’s no P string equivalent for quarters. So I left the P letter out of the output.

RGN: Even in part 2 of iso 8661?

EAO: I think so.

SFC: For relative time format, we should use signed unit format. Weird and inconsistent for P strings for relative time format when they’re used for duration format. Especially since P strings do not cover all relative time units. NumberFormat with a sign. "-1 day" for "1 day ago" and "+1 day" for "in 1 day"

EAO: That could be considered. IT’s not the alternative I presented.

PFC: Do you have access to part 2 of ISO 8661?

EAO: I would appreciate taking a look.

PFC: I’ll look. [Follow-up: I did a quick search of ISO8601 and there is a format for indicating a particular quarter of a year, but not for indicating a duration of N quarters]

EAO: IF you feel strongly about relative time format, file an issue.

#### Define und behaviour for Collator, Segmenter & String.p.toLocale{Lower,Upper}Case

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-stable-formatting/pull/24

EAO: In discussions around this topic, Collator, Segmenter, toLocaleUpper/LowerCase, their APIs are different. They’re producing localized content, but also consuming localized content. There’s already well-defined behavior to highlight. It’s not stable. Not dependent on changes made at Unicode, CLDR, etc. So PR 24 expands the scope of what stable formatting is. To include content that’s not really stable. It would be useful for these APIs to get access to their root locale. To get behavior that’s good, known locale-independent. Perhaps as a part of this proposal: should this be a separate proposal? Add descriptions to these APIS when asked to handle “und”, code for root locale.

SFC: Reiterate the ask for stable-not-actually-stable: is that acceptable? Maybe it is. I don’t know if this is the right proposal. One of the original motivations for the proposal…toLocaleLoewer/Uppercase there are obvious stable alternatives. Segmenter to a lesser extent. There are ground locale sensitive alternatives. Accessing the root behavior, but acknowledging that they may be unstable.

EAO: What do we mean by “unstable”? Stable that we mean here in this proposal is “no longer going to change”. The behaviours we would like to make available for these functions should be locale-independent but not necessarily stable. Or what do you mean?

SFC: When I say “stable” I mean for screenshots, testing, and that will not change if Unicode version changes. That’s a use case. One of the most common use cases is collator that’s at least nominally locale-aware. But for ordering databases it shouldn‘t be changing. That’s a hard problem to solve but keeps getting asked. Tempting to use a proposal called “stable formatting” but which isn’t actually stable (potentially changes based on Unicode version). But if you’re invoking this with Intl.STABLE, it makes it look like you can use a Collator with a formatter, suitable set up, and get stable behavior.

RGN: The kind of stability that I value is what you can rely on, stuff that doesn’t change across hosts, implementation, time, specification changes, to the greatest extent possible. I’m glad this point was raised here. I want the definition to depend on things like Unicode version. This kind of stable is not intended for normal human readers. Meant for consistency for machines. For collation, codepoint order is more useful than whatever is defined in the root locale at some point in time.

HJS: Two different things I’m hearing. EAO is talking about a well-defined way for JS developers to access root collation. Agree we should do that. To do that now you have to know…if you ask for English, you get the root collation. It should be possible to get the root collation more explicitly. But having a collation that doesn’t change, we don’t have that in a way that acts in the same way as the other collations work. This would be a different codepath. Collator in a JS engine: did you ask for the never-changing collation? We already have codepoint order, almost. I can’t remember, does JS compare UTF16 versus compare UTF-8? We can compare outside the collator, JS strings using lexicographic order of code units. So to provide a way to compare JS strings according to the scalar value instead of collator value, that’s OK. No need to have a new approach where all options to the collator make sense. So I don’t like that we’re shoehorning collator into everything. I don’t want a collator with a backend different from the usual one. I don’t want a collator that has options that would allow it to not change. I don’t want checkboxes next to all Intl options for the collator. SFC, is 402 being asked to do stable stuff for databases? Or is that a non-402 collation request from other parties?

SFC: The latter. This has been asked in the context of collation multiple times.

HJS: Someone freezes a collation library as a service. Amazon has a frozen version of glibc's collation. For Collator, it’s documented for databases: don’t do this! Then the DBs do it anyway, then they have to snapshot collation. But it’s not a 402 request, no need to address it here.

RGN: Background: an open question is whether this belongs in 402 or 262. The decision matters, but we shouldn’t put the cart before the horse. The nature of it is such that all provided interfaces could go on String, Date, Temporal, etc. You can recreate the desired results of stable formatting using 262. The results ought to be defined by algorithms. The value of going through Collator rather than a String method is: having this kind of stability would allow environments to expose Intl, that otherwise wouldn’t be able to because it’s a source of nondeterminism. So having a separate codepath isn’t cumbersome. Having access to this functionality where it wouldn’t otherwise be available is good. Defining the stability is good, even if the current source code backing implementations doesn’t work that way. In the priority of constituencies, users come first. Access to a root locale that is itself unstable could be valuable but I don’t see why it’s part of this proposal.

HJS: Root collation in practice is very stable but not 100% stable. For most practical purposes, e.g. binary search tree structure that would break unless all comparisons on all inputs are the same…unless they’re not data structure internals, but user-facing, root collation is in practice very stable. That addresses many use cases. But this idea of having a stable collation that is the codepoint order and priority of constituencies…I see that as a theoretical priority. It’s checking the box where we had all these things, but we wanted 100% stability even if it departs from the semantics of the thing, and we have no evidence of people wanting a 100% stable collator at the expense of …. Comparing base letters, accents, case, and so forth. Basic way of how we expect the collator to interact works with codepoint order. Codepoint order is a low-level string operation, not culturally relevant. Also, for DBs: they don’t always want something stable re: codepoint orders. What they want is that results in different locales don’t change. There isn’t evidence of a constituency that wants codepoint stability. Best thing that exists is root collator. Unassigned codepoints gain new behavior over time as they get assigned. Minor changes to something else…that works for most use cases. If I have a multilineal context, I don’t want to pick the collation for any particular language, I want a catch-all thign, so give me the root. But for things like put these strings in a binary tree, I’ll retriedve them later. But solutions for that apart from a frozen copy of the collator don’t exist. We shouldn’t specify that. No need really exists. Like what Amazon did: make a never-changing copy of something. That gets labelled as a service snapshot in time, and we’re not going to do that kind of thing.

RGN: Re. the claim that we haven’t seen requests for stability. But I gave such a use case. I have a JS that runs on a blockchain across all participating nodes. This is a real concern. If the code in question, written by 3rd parties, using Intl, then we’ll require this from them. Concerning user value versus theoretical purity: we don’t need to check all the boxes. If we’re not going to have that kind of stability, then collator shouldn’t claim to provide it. We’re carving away “zxx” locale to mean that. If there’s an application that wants stability and not the root locale, but it shouldn't be associated with `zxx`.

SFC: Something HJS said:  if we use codepoint order, all the options on collator become meaningless. We still obey most of the formatting options given in the constructor. For test262 testing, screen testing, etc. With collator, the options are meaningless. Can’t test the difference. Unless there’s a way to handle this over version changes, e.g. new diacritics. Hard to do this stably forever. Unless we say we’re frozen on Unicode 17, but implementers won’t be happy with that. But a use case from RGN: we may want fixed behavior. Final comment: if we use root collation, is Intl.STABLE the right name? Because then it’s not deterministically stable. We Intl.DEFAULT_LOCALE ? Though “default” has some meaning. Stable-ish? Pick a word we can bikeshed.

HJS: I don’t find the blockchain use case compelling. If you want deterministic but also culturally relevant sort order, that does not exist, unless in a frozen snapshot of a specific collator implementation. We’re not going to do that in the web platform. For stable collation on blockchain, you should use string comparison. To access the root collation, I would prefer that to be `und`, while stable formatting is `zxx`. But what happens today if none of this is implemented and you pass `und` or `zxx`? You get the locale that the JS VM is running in, which may or may not be the root collation. But if you pass the identifiers, you’ll get results that _look_ like what you asked for in the en-us locale, that are then different in other locales.

EAO: PR 24 reads: for the APIs that consume localized input, we’ve identified good behaviour, but it’s not completely stable, so lets make them work with the “und” locale rather than “zxx”. I agree with RGN that what we’re doing for “zxx” shouldn’t change. It doesn’t need to cover all the behaviours we do for Intl. But for the ones that are affected, behavior shouldn’t change with e.g. an ICU update. TG1 needs to be asled: with “und” locale, should this be a separate proposal or part of this proposal?

RGN: That’s what I was going to say. There’s a difference between “und” and “zxx”. `und` is effectively, access to the root locale. There’s a way to get something locale-relevant but locale-independent. Which is different from “zxx”. Single algorithm usable for all time. Both have use cases. I don’t want developers to get misled. As a result, this is a good spot to end up at.

SFC: I have thoughts on "und" but no time to discuss right now.

EAO: TG2 consensus for asking for stage 2? With the addition that questions will need to be asked about `und` vs `zxx`, possibly in a separate proposal.

RGN: Enthusiastic approval.

SFC: Some of these questions are important to solve. If we’re defining special meaning of `und` I’m not ready for that. If we’re defining that `zxx` means deterministically stable behaviour as in RGN’s version, that’s a good definition.

EAO: Then do I have TG2 approval for presenting specific `und` behaviour as a separate stage 1 proposal?

SFC: Yes, it should be spun off.

RGN: Approval as well. I think it will become important for any Intl API that _doesn’t_ support deterministic behaviour to indicate itself as such.

EAO: Is the note that we need to define what happens if you request a collator for locale `zxx`? I’ll open an issue for that, to discuss.

### Intl Sequence Units for Stage 2?

SFC: Now have a proper proposal. https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-sequence-units (presents README)

SFC: The proposal doesn’t compare the units to make sure they’re compatible. So `foot-and-pound` would be accepted.

SFC: I want to go through the open issues, but first any thoughts on the shape of the proposal? I want to ask formally for stage 1.

EAO: I support this for stage 1. I note: arcminute and arcseconds are not supported in 402. So if those are reasons for this proposal to exist, then we need to make them exist.

SFC: Noted. Those could be future direction. (Presents current issues.)

#### Should unit values be represented as a single scalar value or a structure? (#1)

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-sequence-units/issues/1

SFC: It’s independent of unit conversion, because we don’t have to assign meaning to the units. I initially thought this would be difficult to implement. There are issues but the issues seem solvable.

RGN: I like it this way.

JMN: Also +1, this is consistent with the idea of not assigning meaning to the units, e.g. 6 feet 5 ounces.

DLM: Also like the structure.

#### Behavior when the structured formatting options are missing a unit? #2

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-sequence-units/issues/2

SFC: Currently throws a TypeError. We could infer that a missing unit is 0, best-effort.

???: +1 TypeError.

RGN: +1

EAO: TypeError is in line with “not coercing things”.

#### Behavior when the structured input has extraneous units #4

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-sequence-units/issues/4

SFC: Proposing displaying only ones that are in the unit identifier, ignoring others. Other possibilities are to check all sanctioned units and throw TypeError if any present and nonzero.
RGN: What do you mean when you say “DurationFormat displays them”?

SFC: If the fields are nonzero, they get displayed, if I create DurationFormat without those fields in the options.

RGN: Agree that’s different. Ignore extraneous units.

#### Out-of-range values #5

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-sequence-units/issues/5

SFC: 5 feet, 20 inches. I think this should have no semantic meaning attached.

JMN: +1 to consistency.

RGN Works for me.

EAO: +1.

#### Negative numbers #6

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-sequence-units/issues/6

SFC: If fields have same sign, we’re OK. If fields have different signs, throw RangeError. Render the minus sign on the first unit, if any are negative. We spent 2 meetings dissecting this behaviour a year ago.

RGN: In favour.

YSZ: +1 for consistency.

#### Behavior of inch-and-foot vs foot-and-inch #7

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-sequence-units/issues/7

SFC: Proposal is to just look at the first unit. I’ll ask for consensus on this after we discuss #3.

#### Rounding of more-significant units #3

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-sequence-units/issues/3

SFC: This is a thing you can do: specify min/max fraction digits. What should behavior be?

RGN: Agree with EAO’s suggestion. This is also Temporal’s Duration.

EAO: Erroring on this also aligns with what we do for the case when signs don’t match. Also, CLDR unit formatting text makes a note that there’s no indication of any locale for sequence unit styling where any of the non-left is not an integer. So safer to do error rather than doing something wrong.

SFC: Example with binary arithmetic. Test code, get integers. But in the wild, you get a binary float and your code crashes. I don’t like surprising errors. I like errors that are consistent. I don’t like errors that reproduce some times but not others. This seems situational. Temporal.Duration and Intl.DurationFormat do it this way, so we can just point at that.

RGN: Strong distinction between integer and non-integer. Many APIs reject non-integers. Not a distinct type in the language, but it’s close. So this isn’t circumstantial.

SFC: Happy to highlight the exception and present this to TG1. Since this is the same as Duration behavior, I think people ought to be comfortable with tt. Only question might be: which fields do you read? In Duration we read all 7 fields. Here, we only read the two specific fields (in the example being presented).

SFC: Coming back to the question of inch-and-foot vs foot-and-inch, propose that we use the order specified for the rounding behaviour.

RGN: foot-and-inch, degree-and-arcminute, etc., all in descending magnitude. I believe there are locales where the presentation isn’t in descending order, but the canonical form is always descending. Is there any reason to call for ascending magnitude in the data definition, rather than the output?

EAO: If someone wants inch-and-foot formatting, let them have it. They’ll notice they’re doing the wrong thing, or they’re right and they want it. Imposing an order requires checking the validity of various unit IDs. Also, RGN, I’d be interested in finding if you can find a locale that does’t use the stated identifier order.

RGN: Minute and second. Conceivable a locale might do it the other way around.

EAO: I don’t think that exists.

RGN: If it does exist, we’ve painted ourselves into a corner. We’re handling a localization problem as a data problem, which is inappropriate.

SFC: My thinking: garbage in, garbage out. Only supporting the 47 sanctioned units. We can enumerate the legal possibilities.

RGN: +1. And I’m not seeing it in this file, but isn’t there something like “liters per 100 km”, where one isn’t a sanctioned unit? But that’s a “per”, not an “and”.

SFC: For the Amount proposal, a different decision could be made. But in this proposal, we can’t format non-sanctioned units anyway.

EAO: I would prefer to have the generic case. That does not require us to give an explicit list of the sanctioned units.

RGN: `-per-` is able to be generic in a way that `-and-` is not.

EAO: I disbelieve that.
RGN: `-and-` is going to pay attention to the other in a way that might not agree with the locale.

EAO: This is premised on the assumption that a locale might prefer big-endian.

RGN: Or in the future. Tastes can change over time. We are talking about the order being localizable. Representing the data in a way that distinguishes that is a category error and has the potential for problems in the future.

SFC: I tend to agree. Prefer to be more restrictive.

EAO: YAGNI

EAO: Instead of mandating specific “something-and-something”, you can validate by category. Day and minute but not minute and hour. This would disallow minute-and-kilometer.

SFC: I’ll work on the spec for this and figure out a way to phrase it the way EAO said.

RGN: Degree + arcsecond. I can imagine skipping over the middle.

SFC: Two changes: being strict with rounding. Requiring non-smallest unit is an integer. Second is: listing out in the spec the categories of units that can be combined, and specifying the magnitude order. With those two caveats, do I have support for stage 2?

EAO: Support. I noted that IsWellFormedUnitIdentifier changes make it so that you can’t combine `-per-` and `-and-`, but with the conversation we just had, that’s fine. Your NumberFormat and FormatToParts functions clearly have duplication that should be extracted into an AO, but that’s a stage 2 concern.

RGN: I support

YSZ: I support

### Intl Keep Trailing Zeros for Stage 3?

EAO: RGN might get a PR that fixes issue #15. I’ll review if this happesn by end-of-day tomorrow. Addressing this issue has been the only blocker for stage 3 here, as far as I recall.

### Anba’s normative PRs

#### Normative: Call RegionPreference in WeekInfoOfLocale

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/1051

#### Normative: Align RegionPreference and CanonicalUnicodeSubdivision with UTS 35

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/1059 

SFC: No-one has studied these in depth yet. One option is that we put them on the agenda and study them between now and TG1, or we can delay them to the next TG2.

RGN: Prefer the latter. There’s no urgency, and TG1 often defers to TG2’s recommendation.

### ECMA-402 should stop accepting language subtags with more than 3 letters #951

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/951

HJS: Dashboard of use counter data. These kinds of language subtags. We have 0.0021% of page loads showing this. I wish that we could not import these but the numbers give me pause. Don’t know, why are we seeing these numbers? Is garbage getting into the arguments or is someone actually using legacy values?

SFC: Thanks for sharing the data. Have the same questions.

### Review TG1 Agenda

- EAO: Stable formatting
- EAO: "und" collator
- SFC: Sequence units
- EAO: Keep Trailing Zeros pending a PR from RGN






