Agenda: [https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/blob/master/meetings/agenda-2017-12-15.md](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/blob/master/meetings/agenda-2017-12-15.md)

# Attendees

* DE: Daniel Ehrenberg (Igalia)
* AK: Adam Klein (Google)
* Eemeli
* SRL: Steven R. Loomis (IBM) @srl295
* NC: Nebojša Ćirić
* ZB: Zibi Braniecki (Mozilla)
* RX: Rafael Xaviers (Paypal)
* MS: Michael Saboff (Apple)
* SM: Stas Małolepszy (Mozilla)
* CC: Craig Cornelius (Google) 
* FB: Felipe Balbontín (Google)
* CP: Caridy Patiño (Salesforce)
* JS: Jungshik Shin (Google)
* JH: Jack Horton (MSFT) github/jackhorton
* DIV: Doug Ilijev (MSFT) github/dilijev
* BT: Brian Terlson (MSFT) github/bterlson

# Agenda

1. Introduction and intention of this meeting: (~5m)
    1. Move forward the ECMA 402 (Intl) standard by discussing among experts in the field, developing and refining proposals, and making recommendations to TC39
    2. Quick overview of current TC39 process and recent status of ECMA 402
2. Everyone: Who is here and what is your interest in ECMA 402? What direction would you like to see it go in? (~15m)
    1. [Google's i18n interests and mid-term goals](https://goo.gl/wKcA6w)
3. Overview of new features in ECMA 402 after v2:
    1. [formatToParts](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/47)
    2. [PluralRules](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-plural-rules)
    3. [hourCycle](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/135)
    4. Intl.getCanonicalLocales
4. Overview of advanced pending proposals and their status--what do you think of these? (~10m)
    1. [Intl.Segmenter](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-segmenter) (Stage 3)
    2. [Intl.ListFormat](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-list-format) (Stage 2)
    3. [Intl.RelativeTimeFormat](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-relative-time) (Stage 2)
5. Less advanced proposals (~10m)
    1. [Intl.UnitFormat](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/32) (Stage 1)
    2. [dateStyle/timeStyle options](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-ecma402-datetime-style) (Stage 1)
    3. Adding various options to existing formatters ([overview](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/186#issuecomment-338788856), [label for bugs](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/labels/option))
    4. [Intl.IntervalFormat](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/188)
    5. [Intl.DurationFormat](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/47)
    6. Data access: [display names](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/31), likely subtags, [Unicode character database](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/90), BiDi information etc
    7. [navigator.locales](https://github.com/whatwg/html/pull/3046), [window.ontimezonechange](https://github.com/whatwg/html/pull/3047)
    8. What else would you like to pursue beyond this? Hyphenation? MessageFormat?
6. If there is time, go over some questions to answer from bugs/PRs: (~5m)
    1. [Intl.RelativeTimeFormat type: numeric/text naming](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-relative-time/issues/54)
    2. [Should locales support _?](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale/issues/7)
    3. [ISO 4217 vs CLDR default currency digits](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/134)
    4. There are several more bugs [in the bug tracker](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues)
7. Work to do in ICU to support proposals (~5m)
    1. RelativeTimeFormat [formatToParts](https://unicode-org.atlassian.net/browse/ICU-13256)
    2. (possibly) [API for PluralRules supported locales](https://unicode-org.atlassian.net/browse/ICU-12756)
    3. Anything more?
    4. *[srl] ICU-TC Liason? [this was in a mistargetted agenda PR]*
8. Future (~10m)
    1. How should we structure these group's work and these meetings in the future?
    2. Do we want to schedule a follow-on meeting?
    3. How should we divide up action items among us?
    4. Minor: Should we propose to become an official task group of TC39, or continue as an ad-hoc group?

# Notes

DE: a quick overview of 402. In the bug tracker there are a lot of new APIs proposed. The goal of this meeting is to figure out the process of moving forward on these proposals and of building agreement between implementations to add new features.

DE: what direction tc39 should go in?

NC: We created a spreadsheet which outlines APIs built into Google Closure some of which we’d like to propose to 402.

DE: The proposals currently before tc39: Segmenter (refinement over Intl.v8BreakIterator)

NC: might be much easier to refer to the Unicode standard.

SRL: standards specifically mention [customization of breaking](https://www.unicode.org/reports/tr14/#Customization). There’s breaking that’s not specific to any language. And then there’s custom breaking which can provide [tailoring](https://unicode.org/reports/tr29/#Tailoring) to breaking. Having these customization does not mean an implementation is non-standard.

DE: why don’t we go through the implementor’s intent for #3 on the agend (formatToParts, PluralRules, hourCycle)

JH (?): (of Chakra impl) formatToParts is pretty straightforward. hourCycle seems more complex. If you specify hourTwelve to be false, how does it interact with -u-hc-h12? (I’m not sure I captured that right)

ZB: Mozilla has a concern about the size increase related to implementing Segmenter. Segmenter adds ~3 MB to the bundle size, which is a 100% increase over the rest of Intl.

JS: It’s 800K without zh/ja dictionaries but with Khmer/Burmese/Lao/Thai dictionaries.

SRL, NC: can we drop Mozilla’s current impl to save some space?

ZB: we have an incomplete impl, with some tables, but it wouldn’t save us a lot. Android doesn’t expose its tables, so we can’t use it. We might be able to save around 300 KB by dropping the old impl.

JS: Chrome on Android doesn’t ship with Chinese and Japanese dictionaries to save space. Khmer dictionary can be further optimized to save ~ 100kB more.

SRL: extended grapheme clusters [are locale-dependent](https://unicode.org/cldr/trac/ticket/2992).

CP: let’s take this offline

DE: ListFormat. Join items with commas and prepositions. Stage 2 in TC39. I’m proposing it for Stage 3 at the next meeting. We try to get most of the design question out of the way by Stage 3. Stage 3 is pretty stable and means that we’ve figured out most of the details by now.

CP: from the editorial POV, this one seems very strong. No objection to move forward.

ZB: I implemented a polyfill using data from CLDR. It’s ~5 patterns per language. A very lightweight API. It shows up a lot in combination with UnitFormat. I also proposed an extension of NumberFormat which is aware of units, rather than UnitFormat.

DE: we were going to propose RelativeTimeFormat for Stage 3. It includes formatToParts but there’s no ICU support for that right now.

ZB: RTF is a very lightweight API, ~8 patterns per language. I implemented it for SpiderMonkey.

JS: it should be more than 8 because of plurals

ZB: you’re right, it’s 8 * plural categories per language

Doug: we need the ICU support to implement this

DE: it should be possible to do via an ICU extension. Should we recommend RTF for Stage 3?

CP: hopefully we can get it in

DE: let’s move on to less advanced proposal. UnitFormat. One option is to do something similar to the ICU API. But it’s not compositional with units. It just takes just a few types of units.

SRL: Shane  has a different proposal. A new API which follows the fluent API style (easy chaining of methods).

DE: Zibi also proposed additional DateTime options

ZB: options bag passed to the constructor make sense but might not make sense for higher-level API. In most cases users want simple "short", “long”, “normal”. Operating Systems also allow users to customize the pattern (skeleton?). dateStyle: short, timeStyle: short would be shortcut options for expressing the user’s general intent. We could also look into the OS settings and check for any customizations and apply them to the pattern when these options are present.

J: it was part of the original proposal but we dropped in favor of the options bag.

SRL: from the user’s perspective, there might be more valid settings than the standard four.

ZB: these prefs could be made locale-sensitive, as in, dateStyle: short might mean month: short in language A, and month: 2-digit in language B.

DE: navigator.locales could expose OS’s calendar prefs (something navigator.languages doesn’t expose)

DE: Intl.Locale API makes an update that corresponds to lang tag and options You can parse out the script or change the calendar and pass it to other Intl ctors. 

NC: it feels like it combines two separate things: locales and user preferences.

DE: that’s the role of navigator.locales.

SRL: user preferences are expressed as locales (-u extensions). We need to answer two questions: What is the locale the user is expecting? What are the customizations to that locale?

DE: I’d like to talk about scheduling future meetings. Does the current format work?

NC: face to face would be more useful. But this works as well and is probably the best we can do for now.

DE: maybe we can have a few calls like this and then see about scheduling a face to face meeting

NC: once a month.

Microsoft and Mozilla agree.

NC: schedule a 402 meeting a week (or a few days) before the next TC39 meeting (which happen every 3 months)

CP: there’s only one more TC39 meeting before the next release is cut. Let’s try to focus on proposals which can be moved to Stage 4 (and maybe stage 3).

Doug: the agenda is pretty dense. Maybe try to have fewer items. Maybe collect feedback on it prior to the meeting.

