# 2025-03-06 ECMA-402 Meeting
## Logistics
### Attendees

- Shane Carr - Google i18n (SFC), Co-Moderator
- Daniel Minor - Mozilla (DLM)
- Ujjwal Sharma - Igalia (USA), Co-Moderator
- Jesse alama - Igalia (JMN)
- Richard Gibson - OpenJS Foundation (RGN)
- Philip Chimento - Igalia (PFC)
- Henri Sivonen - Mozilla (HJS)
- Yusuke Suzuki - Apple (YSZ)
- Frank Yung-Fong Tang - Google i18n, V8 (FYT)
- Younies Mahmoud - Google i18n (YMD)

### Standing items

- [Discussion Board](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/projects/2)
- [Status Wiki](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/wiki/Proposal-and-PR-Progress-Tracking) -- please update!
- [Abbreviations](https://github.com/tc39/notes/blob/master/delegates.txt)
- [MDN Tracking](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402-mdn)
- [Meeting Calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=unicode.org_nubvqveeeol570uuu7kri513vc%40group.calendar.google.com)
- [Matrix](https://matrix.to/#/#tc39-ecma402:matrix.org)

## Status Updates

### Updates from the Editors

USA: at the last plenary, we presented an update. We’ve merged in a number of changes. DurationFormat has been merged, though with some editorial issues. Spec has been cut for 2025 edition. We’re adding editorial changes. But it looks like we can freeze the spec. Not urgency if we do it before next meeting, sometime before 262 does it. Good to release roughly at the same time. More important things have been merged in.

USA: Editorial PRs: I’ve tagged them as requiring comments or consensus. We don’t necessarily have to do them in this meeting, but please do check out the tracker and look for PRs that might interest you.

RGN: Big change was DurationFormat. Editorial adjustments to make sure its’ references. Fixing table-width issues for table rendering. I’m comfortable with things as they are.

USA: Thanks RGN. Much improvement. Re: table width: nice cosmetic improvement, merge it. Do it before the release for aesthetic reasons. Always good to hear from you all so please contribute any feedback/thoughts.

SFC: Thanks. I see a couple of PRs, (reference needed?) it would be good for these to be merged into ES2025 branch.

USA: Until we announce the freeze, we can deliver anything on top.

SFC: Highlight anything specific for today?

USA:” The one RGN mentioned is nice. And the one you (SFC) commented on, simplified NumberFormat, would be good.

RGN: And of the two, the lower one, 972, I considered more important.

USA: It could seriously affect the readability of the spec right now.

SFC: OK.

### Updates from the MessageFormat Working Group

SFC: We ended up preparing for the 47.1 update, we marked things as “proposed” as opposed to “stable”. Got feedback from ICU TC on some things which we still need to address. We had a productive meeting in Seattle with TG5 researchers including the ones from UC San Diego who had prepared a report. The highlight was that MessageFormat is achieving its job which is good although there are some issues which are counterintuitive despite being correct. This report certainly gives me more confidence.

USA: Some efforts with a similar effect: we’ve been trying to work on industry adoption. Some React-based PoC’s have been built. Next.js applications for Bloomberg. We’re working on integrating Eemeli’s work, and ICU4C, using the XLIFF format. Awaiting more feedback from translators. I18n experts sometimes get tripped up by things like e.g. number of plural categories. Given that CLDR will publish this soon, it might be a good time to present this at committee, again and ask for permission to move forward.

### Updates from Implementers

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/wiki/Proposal-and-PR-Progress-Tracking

DLM: we are looking to ship temporal soon. Moving along well, but having some issues around calendars. We have disagreements on ICU4X and ICU4C, which block us. Devs can see inconsistent results. We are thinking about not shipping calendars right away. We might ship the unproblemetic ones and then try to press separately for resolution on the other calendars. Anba has something that would delegate the ICU4C calendars and ensure self-consistency. Internally, we will probably just restrict calendars.

HJS: We discovered some issues with some calendars. ICU4X and date ranges far from today can yield problems. In some constrained ranges, things work. So there may be limits on calendars.

SFC: Excited to hear the updates. Just as a general thing, we should definitely be in a position where we’re shipping the calendars clients are using consistently across engines so we definitely need to use this opportunity to resolve these issues in the calendars we’ve identified. There’s one issue on the agenda regarding the reference point on the islamic calendar. Regarding asserts and panics in the far away date case we’ve also identified some solutions. It’s not going to be a design goal that designed dates? are going to align with. It’s not a fine goal in the medium term to ship a set of calendars that work without issues although it could be a decent short term solution.

DLM: Making sure we ship calendars that people actually use: no evidence that these calendars were ever used. E.g. the Islamic calendar on the agenda today. No evidence that people use them, though they exist in CLDR. We don’t have any other evidence. Not saying “lack of evicence → no ship” but we can’t discover anything. We are sensitive to the possibility that a lack of cultural knowledge is playing a role here in our decision.

SFC: Thanks for updating the sheets.

USA: Yes, that was done. I had one question: should we include normative PRs? I don’t see any old ones but perhaps there are normative PRs. Please update these or let us know. I noticed that some of the missing pieces were really missing, whereas other were actually finished. E.g. some releases seemd to lack into in compat tables.

FYT: Do we have a policy for remving info in those tables? Some PRs are like 5 years old. Should have some way of clean up this table?

USA: Actually it’s even bigger. We have a place for issues and finished proposals. We could add the finished normative PRs. What if I move the PRs on this page but with no missing pieces (no red Xs, etc.)?

SFC: If achievable, it would be nice if all the PRs that are in the 2020 edition are linked. That seems clean to me. Certainly, all complete PRs with no X…

USA: All of these old missing pieces…if we reduce the amount of info on the page, it would be easier to spot the problems. 

SFC: I usually just scroll toward the bottom. We’re all in agreement that we should move things away to the “finished” page.

FYT: It should be possible to have that info. Maybe in an archive page. This page should contain things where we expect to take some action, at worse, we recently did take action. But after, say, a year, I don’t want to see that here.

USA: Some stuff is so old that it’s obvious that it can’t possibly be relevant. With GitHub and wikis, there’s no PRs, just commit to main. So I can’t make make a PR. I’ll be in touch.

## Proposals and Discussion Topics

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/projects/2

### Editorial: Replace DurationFormat [[${Unit}{Style,Display}]] slots with [[${Unit}Options]] #972

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/972

Start 10:35

RGN: Look at the commit list. First commit is trivial. 1st commit adds a clarification to the contents of a column. 2nd commit is a column rename, also trivial. 3rd commit is more interesting: adopts a more modern approach to anonymous records. Adds a style and display. “Short”, “long”, “numeric”, etc. Not doing much structurally. 4th commit: trivial. Rather than looking at internal slots, looks at the unit column. 5th commit: more substantial, but not really. Adds a conversion column to bemused in resolved options. So instead of special-casing fractional digits, do a table-driven conversion. 6th commit: substantial. Skp ford now. 7th commit: straightforward, helps us with improving readability.

RGN: So let’s look at that 6th commit. Formerly anonymous record contains style and display details for every temporal unit. This commit adopts those typed records and uses those in place of the two existing slots in duration instances. So we (a) clean up the algorithms a bit, for ECMA402 2025, we can remove a column. YearsOptions and MonthsOptions supplant an earlier, bulkier approach. This is purely editorial in terms of observable behavior.

FYT: I’m looking at the changes: Around line 285. You see something called ~style+display~. What is that?

RGN: It’s a spec enum value.

FYT: It’s an enum! Interesting. So the enum can be ~number~, ~empty~ and ~style+display~?

RGN: Behavior of the conversion: the algo introduces two properties, one that has no suffix, the other with suffix+display. 

FYT: So do we have a place to define the enum value? I see your description in resolvedOptions but can we add a table or something that’s more discoverable?

RGN: It’s scoped to this operation, not needed elsewhere.

FYT: No, the constructor contains it, right?

RGN: No, this is in resolvedOptions.

FYT: No.

RGN: I’m certain. Look for ~style+display~. Expand collapsed section above. In general, we have anonymous spec enums.

FYT: But only for anonymous functions (?)

USA: Though this doesn’t fix more glaring issues, I’ve heard that the DurationFormat needed some improvements and this does that, with spec enums in particular. For future implementors, this should help.

RGN: We’re not 100% done but I’d be comfortable with this landing.

USA: Ideally, we wouldn’t even have the table. It would require a lot of refactoring of the spec.

RGN: I like to hear that. I have a low-priority goal to remove the number of tables. When it makes things more comprehensible, I’m all for it.

FYT: Just one comment about the table: this should probably be three tables. One table with an if statement in each row is kind of weird. Not related to this PR.

USA: Cleaning up the tables would help make spec more readable. Megatable is not the best solution. We have all these units, and they have a lot in common. Based on their behavior, they might vary. We might handle nanoseconds differently from days. Ideally we wouldn’t need the table. We decided to do a table and spec case for smaller units.

DLM: Wanted to just request a time check, thank you.

RGN: All this gets a bit better with temporal. A lot of what they’re doing overlaps with what we’re doing here.

USA: In the absence of more comments, a clear conclusion would be to merge this as editors.

SFC: Frank and Yusuke have the most experience.  I have some comments about NumberFormat, that might translate to DurationFormat.

FYT: I took a look, no strong opinion.

RGN: Thanks.

YSZ: I’ll take a look.Thank you.

### Normative: Add Locale.prototype.getVariants #960

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/960 

RGN: Not ready for 2025.

RGN: So we’ve had this open question regarding getting variants for the locale? All the other properties of a locale can be fetched. This is because variants is not a scalar. This means rather than having a regular getter, we’d need a method to fetch it instead. Everytime we invoke this getVariants method, it will return a fresh object with these values. At the moment we have this example where it returns an object with the properties sorted in alphabetical order. I’d like to note that this is the only open question here: the ordering of the properties. I didn’t know if it was an implementer or a developer but I suspect it’s a developer.

SFC: This is a gap we have to fill. Locale identifiers have variants. It’s one of the subtags and all other subtags are accessible. ZB raised some concerns regarding variants. They’re useful for orthographies. One question is whether to return strings or keys. Should this return a key set for in
stance? This is the biggest question IMO: what’s the return type.

DLM: Consistency with existing APIs isn’t motivation for a new API. Need more evidence that this will be used on the web. What are the use cases?

HJS: Yeah it’s not completely convincing that the person who asked mentioned that they don’t exactly remember their use case and then tried to come up with use cases by working backwards from there. How do you justify spending engine developer time on this?

FYT: we have a getter, we need a setter. Option bags currently don’t take variants.

RGN: Similarly, don’t take regions, nor scripts.

FYT: they do!

USA: clarifying question: can we use BC47 format for variants? Then I guess having getter and setter makes sense.

### Consider unshipping islamic and islamic-rgsa calendars #971

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/971

DLM: Looking into these two calendars, islamic-rgsa. Was requested by Oracle. Not iimple,ented to ICU4C, “deletgates” to islamic calendar. Not implemented in ICU4X.

DLM: islamic is observation-based. Where is that simulation of the observation taking place? ICU4X uses Cairo. ICU4C has a location I believe but I’m not sure. Is this calendar useful for anyone? Since it’s not implemented, I wonder what we should do.

SFC: Over the last few …, the observational islamic calendar is the hijri calendar. The islamic calendar is a legacy name and everyone asks me to use the name hijri instead so I’ll use that. So the one called islamic is the hijri calendar that’s most widely used in the islamic world. The observation point might affect it. There are authorities who are responsible for this observation. For instance there might be individual clerics in remote mosques but you have more accurate observational methods and specific authorities for instance the egyptian government can make a pretty technically correct observation which is simulated in our case but the accuracy is very close which is great since we can’t get 100% except for the tabular hijri which we can follow very closely. In general for the hijri calendars we need to decide what makes the most sense for users. We agree that we should ship what’s most useful for the users. We know users want the hijri date to correspond to the dates in their region who have authorities that should be doing the measurements and we should be doing our best to match those.

FYT: Fiya (?) power. Shipping list for number system, but not for calendars. We don’t define what is shipped. So what do we mean we unship? So what are we doing? This may not be the right palace for discussion.

HJS: In practice, the Gecko, Chromium and WebKit engines say that islamic-rgsa acts as if it were implemented. So unshipping in spec means, don’t expose this in the web. So it was a mistake to expose this. The current implementation just asks for another one. Asking “which calendar are you?”, it says “islamic-rgsa”, but otherwise is identical. So “unshipping” means suggest or require that, even though this thing is listed in CLDR, don’t do anything.

DLM: Just wanted to say that I agree completely. I want to start a bit of a discussion regarding the utility of what we expose. Nobody is questioning the value of the observation. The simulation on the other hand, which tends to be 90% or so accurate is not entirely useful.

FYT: Depends on the weather. There’s a cloud. I don’t buy the “simulation”.

SFC: Modern technology allows you to overcome the issue of cloud cover. This is an old problem and modern solutions make the accuracy of simulations much closer to the observation due to the ever increasing accuracy of the observation. In ECMA and CLDR we should prioritize the calendars that are predictable by simulations. I’m not going to speculate about the numbers but the more predictable calendars are more widely used. If the simulations can be updated in the form of ICU update we can still use the simulation for most of the dates while we adjust the simulation slightly for all other cases. Specifically about rgsa, I do prefer islamic-rgsa over islamic because it specifies where the observation occurs. At the moment islamic-rgsa defers to islamic. But I can see that islamic has an undefined observation place whereas islamic-rgsa specifies it to be in Saudi Arabia.

HJS: Re: accuracy: umm al-qura calendar comes from an institution in Saudi Arabia that does the simulation. Unicode has run the simulation for 300 years, using a specific location in Mecca. There have been occasions where a moon sighting as not matched the simulation. So if that simulation doesn’t match the sightings so well, that there have been multiple adjustments, then I have doubts. In MacOS, a user can choose a calendar. Rgsa seems not to be there, but other Islamic calendars are there. Do users choose these options? E.g. MacOS “astronomical” option seems to be “islamic”. How do we know that “islamic” is the right thing to use? Umm al-qura is a specific thing, but how do users match what they want with what the API has? We need to know about the calendar in ICU4C meets needs. Given that umm-al-Qura has these issues, is this what users want? https://webspace.science.uu.nl/~gent0113/islam/ummalqura_adjust.htm 

USA: I want to add: software products that support islamic calendars also allow users to specify an update. You can just set your calendar. Does this make sense in our temporal data model? Can we specify an offset in the calendar?

SFC: My only comment here was about the accuracy otherwise the umm al-qura would suffice. I don’t think that the fact that these calendars aren’t aligned with the ground truth means that we should be focused on solving bugs. For instance if our simulation of umm al-qura is not matching that of the authorities in Saudi Arabia then we should be working on fixing that. Umm al-qura is a calendar that can be sufficiently improved on our implementation’s side to match the accuracy of the observed calendar. 

DLM: I think Henri’s point wasn’t that our implementation is inaccurate, it’s that the Saudi simulation isn’t accurate outside certain ranges. We need to support dates in the past, how does that work?

YMD: Adding offset is a good idea for the current month but it doesn’t solve the problem for other months. You have a lot of months coming ahead which would still need to be addressed.

HJS: Of these variants, the umm al-qura one is the most obvious one to support. We know there’s an authority, with a specific variant. ICU4X doesn’t match what the authority says, that’s a bug in ICU4X. There’s some documentation about sighting differences. Umm al-Qura is based on Mecca. But even there, the simulation might not be the same as the actual result. So saying that we have a simulation, but not showing a reference point, is strange for users. How many users who have access to ICU4Cs simulation find it works for them? What does it mean, if there’s no documentation of the simulation location? How do I know if this is the right thing for me to you?

SFC: Regarding dates in the past and future: running simulations for those is not going to give us anything meaningful to the users and to the ground truth. We previously discussed this in Temporal. We use the metonic cycle approximation called islamic-tbla in the CLDR jargon. We have this simulation that’s quite expensive within the core range and outside we have simpler simulations and calculations.
​​
FYT: Two places where a calendar is used in our API. One, in DatetimeFormat. Or, passing a calendar in an options bag. Depending on locale, you might get Gregorian or Islamic. So what does “unship” mean? We can’t throw an error. I don’t want to throw an error when giving an invalid calendar. Through Intl.LocaleInfo API, we can use getCalendar. So what should we do? I don’t think the discussion belongs here, since we can’t throw an error.

HJS: Temporal hasn’t shipped yet so we could make it throw in this case. Currently for Umm Al-Qura ICU4C has data tables obtained by the authority that prepares the calendar for 300 years and if you go outside that range we fall back to islamic-civil which is a day off from islamic-tbla. You don’t observe this from the API. You can’t tell if you are getting an exact value from a table or if you’re getting an approximation. I think it makes sense to make this difference observable.

PFC: I was going to say the same thing as HJS.

SFC: There were a lot of things we discussed in this issue and after a very long discussion, the conclusion was to silently fall back to the approximate value. If we should continue with this behavior is upto us. I was one of the advocates to silently fall back to a metonic approximation. I won’t argue about it here although we can discuss about it with the Temporal champions because it concerns their invariants here despite this being an Intl calendar.

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-temporal/issues/2869

DLM: Nothing else to add today. Thank you everyone for a productive conversation.

### What do implementers need in order to ship Temporal? #21

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-era-monthcode/issues/21

SFC: Frank started this a few years ago, so that the way browsers implement era is consistent. Proposal is still stage 2. Some open questions remain. 15 open issues. We should probably reach a conclusion on these. This is a stage 2 proposal, things might change. E.g., if we merge one of PFC’s PRs, then this repo needs to change. Focus on parts of proposal that are robust against such changes. We could ship breaking changes around error codes. What do we need to do to fix this proposal? How do we fix such issues, and who drives it forward?

PFC: Not sure how important it is that we specify the era codes within ECMAScript. Generally don’t like copied tables which we need to keep updated but agree with you on the subject that we should resolve this ASAP.

FYT: You said “copy”. Is there a place we can copy from?

PFC: A copy of the information in CLDR.

FYT: I don’t think so.

SFC: A couple of releases ago, things changed with CLDR, but I think no one is using them.

SFC: We had an ECMAScript proposal where we should accept CLDR codes, but should accept other codes, too.

PFC: If CLDR isn’t the source of truth for this data then we could just agree to land this proposal if we agree that we all like this. My understanding was that CLDR would need to accept a PR before we land this but if that’s not the case then we can move ahead with this already and that’d be one less hurdle to getting these era and month codes.

HJS: The key thing that is different here is the sense which for calendars on their own in CLDR don’t have an era that goes infinitely backwards. This explicitly says that negative years are allowed for all starting eras. Is it the case that the Japanese eras are a subset of the ones CLDR knows about. This is interoperability-relevant that ECMAScript only supports these emperor-based eras and explicitly avoids the earlier ones.

SFC: Regarding what DLM said earlier, I do believe that it should be the case that in ECMAScript engines should ship calendars that are useful to users and it’s the case that there are things in CLDR that are not useful. Those include the ancient Japanese eras. It’s important to note accurate eras for dates for which we have people alive who were born in that era. This is the case for Meiji but pre-Meiji eras don’t make that cut. I do think this proposal should give a set of things that all engines should support consistently. We’re specifying a way to deal with calendars like the japanese or buddhist or hindu calendars in an interoperable way. I do feel like we should focus on things we can get alignment on.

HJS: From making umm-al-qura go from -inf to +inf, there is a calendar authority and has provided tables only for 300 years, with a fallback. So that helps answer the question “should temporal throw when handling a value in a very wide range?”

SFC: The range question let’s put it on the agenda but let’s stay focussed on the answer to this specific question. For questions like “should Temporal throw exceptions outside of certain ranges” it makes sense but for other questions let’s put them on the list.

USA: I want to offer an opinion: given that we’re adding a relatively new dimension to calendars that haven’t been used for a long time except in i18n settings, it makes sense to start relatively conservatively. It makes sense to throw if we are outside the range that we can handle. But the range seems to be different for different calendars. It makes sense for this to be calendar-specific. Let’s allow developers to play with these, and improve over time.

FYT: I put together this thing while working on Temporal. Some of the Temporal operations changed a lot and I had trouble following them. For example sections 1.5 to 1.8 changed drastically. I think one thing would be great: some calendars should have some restrictions, we can open issues case by case and then it could be much more straightforward to argue about these specific cases. It would be nice for the temporal champions to figure out what kind of things they need there. Is this proposal still necessary? What operations are needed? I think we could look for one thing: what Philip put out for changing the era name we should take a look at that and check if that makes sense. Is this proposal still needed? So many things changed. A number of items in the spec text of this proposals seem to be obsolete.

PFC: The era and month codes aren’t. Other stuff may be.

SFC: This proposal is about error codes…

FYT: I also put out a response that the month code makes sense for that calendar.

SFC: I’ve got the list of eras, codes, canonicalized eras, month codes, era year matcher function, calendar date era, …

FYT: …

PFC: Specifying how a calendar does a computation shouldn’t be part of this proposal because we’ve already done those calculations in Intl.DurationFormat for a decade.

HJS: On the previous point it turns out that since implementations used a single implementation, it seemed like that but since we started looking more closely at the ICU4X-based implementations the variations become more and more relevant. We should go back and figure out the root of these differences between results.

SFC: We need to make clear on what the extent of the spec is for arithmetic purposes is going to be. So for example calendar date merge fields include fields that … The exact algorithm for converting dates isn’t specified but the parts closer to user use are indeed specified.

PFC: This needs to be hashed out somewhere. If ICU4X and ICU4C disagree on a date, that needs to be hasjhed out, so it’s not suitable for this forum. We don’t want to include these calculations in the spec, e.g. when the Japanese abdicates., As for invariants, we could add those as notes, and that wound’t need to mvoe through the proposal process. We need the codes. The era codes could be different from the ones in CLDR.

FYT: In my original intent, I can’t make it clearer but if we look at the spec, the key thing is to make sure we have agreement which calendars would return undefined for era. If we do return an era what should be the set which we should return. It shouldn’t be an unspecified set. We’re not trying to define what the exact era values are. That said we can stick to values within a set of valid values. This is similar for monthCode where we can have upto 25 unique values. In order to change things like if the Japanese emperor abdicates we’d need to make a change here nonetheless. Hopefully this won’t happen very often.

HYS: Re: Japan: to promote interoperability, we can’t support JP eras older than <these>. But if there’s a new emperor, presumably we don’t always go to +inf, so we accept inputs up to positive infinity. Systems that assume heisei goes beyond 31 are about what the implementation can return. If you give a higher value, we should assume the era had gone on further. You can give heisei values that give us some values that might be unrepresentable. IF you say “heisei 32”, and then “what was that?”. If you give “heisei 32” you get “reiwa 1”, it shouldn’t throw.

PFC: We already took it into account in Temporal so a note won’t be necessary here.

SFC: We’re getting close to time so I think there are some good things to keep track of here. Who is going to drive this? I am hearing agreement that this is important for implementations. We need someone to drive this forward. This proposal has been stalled for a bit. If 

FYT: I think it would be better for Mozilla to drive this since they are closer to shipping.

HJS: It would be more appropriate to see if DLM is interested.

PFC: We should discuss this internally.

### Rationals

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-measure/issues/23

(no updates, but please leave feedback)

### Intl Locale Info

(no updates)
