# November 5, 2020 Meeting

Attendees:

- Eemeli Aro - OpenJSF (EAO)
- Felipe Balbontin - Google i18n (FBN)
- Leo Balter - Salesforce (LEO)
- Zibi Braniecki - Mozilla (ZB)
- Shane Carr - Google i18n (SFC), Co-Moderator
- Philip Chimento - Igalia (PFC)
- Romulo Cintra - CaixaBank (RCA), MessageFormat Working Group Liaison
- Craig Cornelius - Google i18n (CCN)
- Richard Gibson - OpenJS Foundation (RGN)
- Justin Grant - Invited Expert for Temporal (JGT)
- Long Ho - Dropbox (LHO)
- Ujjwal Sharma - Igalia (USA), Co-Moderator
- Frank Yung-Fong Tang - Google i18n, V8 (FYT)
- Jeff Walden - SpiderMonkey/Mozilla (JSW)
- Myles C. Maxfield - Apple (MCM)

Standing items:
- [Discussion Board](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/projects/2)
- [Status Wiki](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/wiki/Proposal-and-PR-Progress-Tracking) -- please update!
- [Abbreviations](https://github.com/tc39/notes/blob/HEAD/delegates.txt)
- [MDN Tracking](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402-mdn)
- [Meeting Calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=unicode.org_nubvqveeeol570uuu7kri513vc%40group.calendar.google.com)

## Liaison Updates

### MessageFormat Working Group

RCA: Gave a presentation at the Unicode Conference. We've been working in task groups. We have some consensuses: message references, and parameters being passed with references. We are also going to discuss top-level selectors, which will fill the gap of not having only internal selectors.

EAO: The overall big picture is that with these changes, MessageFormat V2 is starting to look rather different from MessageFormat V1.  But portability from V1 to V2 will be maintained.  These hints at consensus are important building blocks.

RCA: We're also working on collecting more use cases. We're concerned about whether or not we have lossless conversion.

SFC: Do you have any questions or requests from this group?

RCA: Use cases are a great help, to determine whether our proposal aligns with the expectations of everybody.

RCA : Message Format Unicode Conference (Slides) and open issues that may need some help #119

## Discussion Topics

### API surface and scope guidelines #442

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/442

ZB: If you add features as soon as you have any use case, you'll eventually add everything. I don't think this should be the case. What I'm looking for is agreement in this group that ECMA-402 is to remain a subset, and we're looking to cut features early. If a feature is widely requested, or if a feature would significantly enable a multilingual web, then we can add it. I would like to strike a balance. 50,000 small web sites using a library is hard to calculate against one high-profile web site is hard to evaluate. Mainly I want to avoid a completionist approach. And finally, there's a difference between features that are cheap and features that are expensive. For example, controlling sign display is cheap. But we should push back on things that require more data or much more logic. I'm worried about a kitchen sink approach.

SFC: I feel like this should still be on a case-by-case basis. It is a Stage 2 requirement.

LEO: Where do we draw the line? One thing about this group is that we have a diversity of opinions here. We have practitioners and implementers. I've been on both sides. We get lots of perspectives. We need to recognize that bias is a thing for everyone. I think case-by-case is the easiest solution, but there are a lot of things we can add. We can add things to mitigate the burn of having this case-by-case.

LHO: How does 262 operate?

LEO: In 262, discussions are synchronous, and that's a problem. I think the community should have a way on a feature proposal, and community input should be weighted more.

LHO: From a product standpoint, 402 compared to 262 requires a certain level of expertise to understand or propose. For Intl, we have to have some knowledge of CLDR and do some more research to put together a proposal.

ZB: Something RCA said resonates with me strongly. SFC listed a number of technical bugs that we have in our specification. It's really hard to motivate people to work on spec cleanups, test coverage, and tech debt reduction. A majority of energy naturally goes into adding another proposal. If the barrier is low for new features, then we keep collecting tech debt.

SFC: I don't think tech debt reduction should block feature proposals.

FYT: I don't remember people in meetings ever talking about tech debt. No one champions them.

SFC: Maybe we should set aside time ever meeting to talk about editorial and tech debt issues.

ZB: That's on-point. We don't hear much about tech debt issues precisely because we prioritize feature development in our meetings.

FYT: Why should we spend meeting time discussing non-controversial issues?

LHO: I'm happy to help with spec quality, since it means a lot to the polyfills.

SFC: I think we should summarize these in bullet points in the repo and point to those bullet points when promoting proposals to Stage 2.

LEO: Maybe we should document a process for someone who has an idea and create a proposal.

SFC: I'll make a PR to add this list to a CONTRIBUTING.md file. Does that sound good?

EAO: +1

RGN: +1

### Intl.DisplayNames for Stage 4

FBN: Targeting the January meeting. There are some issues I'd like to discuss.

#### startRange vs shared vs endRange #30

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-DateTimeFormat-formatRange/issues/30

LHO: A design goal was that you can style different pieces differently. I pulled out this bug because I'm not sure it's a bug. The word "day" and the tilde being together is not enough.

FBN: We could change the algorithm to read the data from CLDR as-is. That sounds to me more like an implementation decision, rather than something that should be added to the spec itself. If we were to replicate what ICU is currently doing when reading from CLDR, that would make the spec more complex.

LHO: In the example, if the first part is month and the source is shared, or whether it is startRange, is not required by the spec.

ZB: Is this an arbitrary difference, where one is clearly right and the other is clearly wrong, or could this change if ICU logic changes? I would err on the side of allowing multiple forms of the data.

SFC: This looks like a Chromium or ICU bug. I don't think it justifies a spec change.

FYT: I'll look into it.

FBN: The spec right now trusts that the locale data being provided is correct. In this case, the spec allows this, but the spec also describes what the locale data should look like, and this data would not be following that description.

SFC: I think in 2021 we should take a global look at the spec and adjust how little or how much we specify locale data formats. The issue here is not unique to formatRange, and we shouldn't change the formatRange spec any more.

#### Firefox Implementation of formatRange

https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1653024

JSW: There are 2 bugs that are blocking the Firefox implementation.

FBN: I think I have resolutions to them. I am waiting for Anba's reply.

### Include Set Timezone WebDriver extension to allow testing of different timezone? #507

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/507

FYT: I've been working on a timezonechange event in HTML. One of the things blocking it is a web platform test. To write that test, we need a hook to set the time zone, but the time zone needs to be well-specified. We could add this function in three places, listed in the issue.

SFC: 262 could also be a candidate in a Temporal world.

USA: I think WebDriver is a good contender.

RGN: I don't think it makes sense in either 262 or 402. These are consumers of the information, not sources for it.

FYT: Time zone IDs are there, but no spec exposes it.

RGN: We can imagine them doing so. It would not be out of place in HTML to imagine an RFC 3339 timestamp localized to the language.

LEO: I think what you have here is a problem with the web platform. It would be better to have something available as a standard, but we shouldn't add this to the standard just to make a test possible. We have options. In Test262, we have an API that creates hooks for things we expect from the agent.

FYT: I want to know where this should be specified. If it doesn't belong in 402, that's okay, but we should say that clearly. But we also have similar problems in 402, like the default locale.

USA: Would a default locale hook be required outside of 402?

LEO: We should not make assumptions on other standards.

SFC: Would this be a useful feature for web developers in general?

JGT: No; it's a bad idea to give apps the ability to set the default/system time zone.

PFC: I'm not convinced we need this distinction for testing Temporal.

LEO: The other thing I tried to say is that we should not speculate if a feature is a fit for other standards. We might have experts in other standards here that could give a position, but it's very hard for us to assume if something could become standards somewhere else. I believe the conclusion Frank wants is: we believe this is not a feature for ECMA-402, therefore we can't house it to become a standard.

USA: On the Temporal side of things, we have a hook to the default time zone. So maybe the value could come from there.

SFC: I can see arguments both ways. On the one hand, Intl exposes a fair deal of environment information, like the Intl Enumeration API, the default locale, and the default time zone. So maybe it makes sense to put the hook in 402. On the other hand, Temporal wants to access the default time zone. So I think that's a strong argument that 402 should not be the source of this information and should not expose the hook.

SFC: I would also add 262 as another option for the source of this information.

USA: +1

SFC: Can we agree on this: we do not want 402 to be the source of the web platform's default time zone, and we don't want to expose a hook for it.

RGN: +1

USA: +1

Consensus.

### Normative: Use OrdinaryHasInstance in normative optional steps #500

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/500

RGN: Is this a breaking change?

FYT: It could, but Alexey argues that it's unlikely.  JSC already implements it this way.  I don't have a great sense of the impact.

RGN: Not having reviewed it, I don't feel comfortable accepting it yet in this meeting.  If the change, although backwards-incompatible, is unlikely to break things, that's good.  But I don't want to see things differing across our surface area in the spec.

FYT: My position is that if there's no reason to change, we shouldn't change.

SFC: If the web reality is not consistent, we should adopt the better behavior in the spec, even if it's not what the spec currently says.

Conclusion: More review required; will not bring to TC39 next week.

### Option eraDisplay in Intl.DateTimeFormat() #426

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/426

SFC: It looks like the difference between hourCycle and dayPeriod.

FBN: Should we generalize this, e.g., to the year?  If the year is the current year, then hide the year?

EAO: It sounds like the logic is similar to date ranges: deciding whether or not to display fields depending on whether we're spanning days or months or years.

SFC: I think it would make sense to have separate flags to control era display and year display.

ZB: Could we have nested options?

### DateTimeFormat: consider adding more timezone display options #119

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/119

FYT to make a formal proposal.

### Open Stage 4 PRs

ZB: It creates a lot of work on proposal champions to keep these PRs updated as editorial changes happen.

SFC: I think we should consider all other PRs blocking on the open Stage 4 PRs.

RGN: +1

FYT: Should I wait for a resolution on the conformance section for Intl.DisplayNames?

SFC: No.

RGN: +1

### Intl Enumeration API Specification

https://tc39.es/proposal-intl-enumeration/

FYT: I changed it to be one method that returns an iteratable.

SFC: That looks good to me.

FYT: I'd also like it if people could help me with getting privacy/security experts onboard.

SFC: Can MCM help with that from the Apple perspective?

MCM: Yep.
