# 2026-06-11 ECMA-402 Meeting
## Logistics
### Attendees

- Shane Carr - Google i18n (SFC), Co-Moderator
- Ujjwal Sharma - Igalia (USA), Co-Moderator
- Jesse Alama - Igalia (JMN)
- Daniel Minor - Mozilla (DLM)
- Eemeli Aro - Mozilla (EAO)
- Yusuke Suzuki - Apple (YSZ)
- Richard Gibson - OpenJS Foundation (RGN)
- Henri Sivonen - Mozilla (HJS)

### Standing items

- [Discussion Board](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/projects/2)
- [Status Wiki](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/wiki/Proposal-and-PR-Progress-Tracking) -- please update!
- [Abbreviations](https://github.com/tc39/notes/blob/master/delegates.txt)
- [MDN Tracking](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402-mdn)
- [Meeting Calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=unicode.org_nubvqveeeol570uuu7kri513vc%40group.calendar.google.com)
- [Matrix](https://matrix.to/#/#tc39-ecma402:matrix.org)

## Status Updates

### Updates from the Editors

RGN: Not much to report. Align with 262 on alias naming reforms. I’ll look it over and merge it before next meeting. No recent merges but there are some changes to review.

SFC: 2026 edition approved later this month at GA, are we ready?

RGN: Yes I believe so.

### Updates from the MessageFormat Working Group

EAO: One meeting, some discussion, nothing significant. We still exist and are working. Version 49: some stuff is blocked by semantic skeletons for date tim still in tech preview. Maybe version 50.

### Updates from Implementers

[Proposal and PR Progress Tracking · tc39/ecma402 Wiki · GitHub](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/wiki/Proposal-and-PR-Progress-Tracking)

YSZ: Our current Temporal implementation is now working. As part of this, I completed time zone canonicalizations. I updated the wiki page for this.

USA: Are you editing the slides? I have a merge conflict on that.

SFC: I think YSZ just fixed it.

SFC: This says stage 3 here but it’s merged with temporal. Which is at 4. So it should be at stage 4, we need to update this table. Intl era month code should also be updated here in this table. I’m pretty sure we have good test262 coverage for this.

YSZ: When I canonicalze time zone wrongly, I got a test failure. So I think test262 is covering well.

USA: I think I added more updates.

SFC: Keep trailing zeros is stage 3, just got added. We should add links to tests and implementations and so forth. Looks like we have Amount and Unit Potocol at stage 2. But sequence units isn’t here. It’s not super important.

USA: Accidentally named as unit protocol.

SFC: That’s a different proposal.

USA: OK.

SFC: Looks like we’re a bit behind on some of the implementations. Some might be automatically fixed, but this sheet should always be kept up-to-date. Some might be “already shipped, browser was already doing it”.

### Updates from the W3C i18n Group

EAO: Definiton of “locale”. PRevious definition stated that a “locale” was a locale identifier. I think we’ve concluded that we’re going to document that it’s a set of preferences associated with a locale (identifier), which is a key into that thing. Not sure if this impacts us, given how we construct Intl based on an ID, yielding an object with all these properties. Not inconsistent with what we call “locale”/”locales”.

RGN: In terms of content, we use “locale” without defining. We do “reference locale identifier” in a way that makes sense.

EAO: Just noting that there’s discussion. No action needed.

RGN: I think there a couple of terms that blur the distinction.

## Proposals and Discussion Topics

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/projects/2

### Normative: Allow Locale.p.getNumberingSystems to return >1 item

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/1074

SFC: This is a bug I filed. I observed getNumberingSystems that it wasn’t returning useful information. CLDR defines what the numbering systems are for locales and we’re not returning that. PFC’s PR fixes that so that implementations are allowed to return more than one entry. We were statically returning the first one. Now we have improved language, which should be consistent with language we used…sort in ascending order of common use.

RGN: I think the suggestion is a little bit off, but mostly good.

SFC: Returns a copy, that’s correct. Well written PR. I’ll approve it. RGN you can leave more comments of course. But in terms of what it does, I approve.

DLM: I had a quick look and I think it looks fine

YSZ: I looked quickly and it seems fine, yeah

SFC: Let’s record TG2 approval on this, to bring to the next TG1 meeting.

### Normative: Avoid default locale fallback within Locale.p.getCollations()

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/1072

SFC: Five PRs. Two are new, three were already discussed briefly. I already reviewed this one and agree. FYT had some examples of test cases that would be changed, which is valid. If you have your LANG environment variable set to e.g. “ko” or “zh” and you run getCollations, you get Chinese collations. But we should return the root collations. Should be only two. How was this reachable before? Language = “und”. But now this is reachable if "und" or language not found.

RGN: Looks good.

SFC: Any other comments?

RGN: Specifically working by prefix. Which I think is fine. It’s expecting an exact match anyway. Yeah this looks good.

SFC: It was already doing matching by prefix, so that wasn’t a change. Not sure if that’s correct but that’s what we were already doing.

RGN: I approve. 

SFC: DLM or YSZ, any thoughts?

YSZ: I think so.

RGN: Analogue for it is numbering systems for locale. Effectively the same algorithm here.

YSZ: Looks good.

SFC: Let’s look at numbering systems of locale. Apart from the fact that this returns index 0, this is doing locale lookup by prefix. So we’re making this more consistent.

RGN: This goes in the right direction.

SFC: Collations are language based not region based, so it makes sense to do it that way.

RGN: Numbering systems is a good analogue.

SFC: I see the same bug as in numbering systems.

RGN: This is a different bug. This is saying the first element is null, so remove it. Maybe that’s a bug, but it’s a different bug.

SFC: OK, I see. Nothing wrong here. I really like this. Definitely better.

SFC: OK, we have TG2 approval. If DLM needs more time to check, there should be enough time.

### Editorial: Revise GetOption to trigger a TypeError for absent mandatory options (potentially significant enough for collective review)

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/1068

SFC: I want to flag this one because…to clarify, this is editorial because this case is not reachable right now.

RGN: No current site makes the suitable call. An earlier iteration of Temporal did so. But in the process of getting into 262, it’s no longer using GetOption.

SFC: Does it have its own?

RGN: I think it has it’s own application-specific GetOption.

YSZ: Is Temporal using RangeError or TypeError?

RGN: Temporal is doing what I consider inferior, which is RangeError.

YSZ: Maybe should we update, for consistency?

RGN: Temporal is introducing an inconsistency, by doing RangeError. There’s a big list at the top of this PR where we do what I think makes sense, which is TypeError. Because GetOption did it wrong, and Temporal started with that, Temporal now has the wrong behavior backed in, though no longer via GetOption. I don’t want to propagate that issue. I think we can fix it in Temporal.

SFC: Not reachable because GetOption undefined, then…throw a TypeError exception.

RGN: There are a handful of cases doing the right thing, but with extra steps, because GetOption is poorly defined.

SFC: What fails on Get? When does plain Get fail?

RGN: If there’s a getter that fails, or a setter but no getter…

SFC: But that propagates something from userland.

RGN: Yeah.

SFC: In terms of an editorial change, I’d prefer it if we dropped the enum variant required if we’re not using it.

RGN: I’d like to use it. Oh I missed that. The change should also remove line 129.

SFC: We should refactor to all use…

RGN: I’ll just fix this now. Using GetOption with require you can’t get undefined coming out.

SFC: I’m in favor of this for consistency’s sake. If Temporal is using the wrong kind of error, we should fix that. Let’s go fix Temporal.

RGN: I have a comment to that effect.

SFC: I approved this on the 402 side. I assume Temporal fixes will happen somewhere else because it’s not a 402 thing.

SFC: RGN, would you mind opening a PR against Temporal for this? If you want to wait until after Temporal lands that’s fine. You’re an editor, do what makes the most sense.

RGN: That's the plan

YSZ: This looks good. Agree.

### Normative: Synchronize RegionPreference and CanonicalUnicodeSubdivision with UTS 35 standards

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/1059

SFC: This is about what subtag we should check. One of the issues here is that according to the spec, region override only allows a regular region, not a macro region.

RGN: It specifically excludes macro regions.

SFC: Not only exclude, but also…I don’t see where that’s disallowed. That’s one of the issues with this PR. When’s a macro region allowed or not? We see that spec says that only regular region. But for priority inheritance, I don’t see the issue.

RGN: How do we observer this? In other words, a locale that just is the macro region?

SFC: I think the locale wouldn’t be well-formed.

RGN: It would be well-formed but not valid.

SFC: So it just gets dropped?

RGN: Not sure it’s well-formed or not. I know it’s not valid. Oh, right: well-formedness comes from high-level syntax unless it has too many characters. So it’s just not valid. Valid values are unicode regular region tag, with a suffix of…or a unicode subdivision suffix. Do we define subdivision suffix in the doc? Yes, it is defined. 1-4 alphanumeric characters. Unicode subdivision ID…only invalidity. Not a part of the syntax. Not referenced in syntax. So: well-formed isn’t anything specific. Validity is: has to not be a macro region subtag, or followed by “zzzz” or followed by a valid subvision suffix. That is defined. Ok I think I have a good sense now of what “validity” means here in UTS 35. So the example you gave is not valid. It has no behavioral adjustment.

SFC: Let me write that up as a question. (enters a comment on the PR) But “zz” is allowed? I think so, it’s the undefined region.

RGN: Right. And in terms of effects, I think that would also be treated the same. That would be like “use the root locale”.

SFC: I think “zz” is like “missing subtag”. So “zz” in that position means “likely subregion”.

RGN: That’s surprising. Feels unusual.

SFC: We should probably clarify subregion inheritance. We should clarify what that behavior is. CLDR should do that. I think it’s probably fine to say “zz” locale means “don’t infer one from the likely subtag”. But we should clarify that with CLDR. I think we don’t have enough info to say what the intent is.

EAO: When you say “zz” locale you mean “zz” region, right?
SFC: Yes.

RGN: It already has special treatment in CLDR.

EAO: Only on the inside. “Not really” is the answer. Using it should work like a normal locale.

RGN: No specific behavior for that region?

EAO: Certain ways to end up at “zz” locale, but if we have “zz” region you get…

RGN: Oh, that’s bizarre.

SFC: Likely subtags algorithm. Region “zz”, remove it before doing likely subtags. If no subtags, use “zz” for that.

RGN: Would we even use this algorithm?

SFC: We would run it as the first step. Steps for region priority…after performing region subtag substitution, if the region is missing, use the likely region.

RGN: I think there’s some stuff to sort out in CLDR.

RGN: I’s clear but is it doing what we want. IT seems to me that adding that region override has no effect at all. This is a microscopic version fo what we’re doing for stable formatting: how do you explicitly opt-in to root locale?

SFC: Not sure if there’s a way to do that.

RGN: This would be a good way, but it has different semantics.

SFC: Agree.

EAO: “root region”, do you mean “001”?

SFC: Yes, but that’s not accepted in region overrides.

RGN: To get at the data of “001”.

SFC: By using the “urg” override.

RGN: Yes.

SFC: Everything we’re talking about it about the “urg” override.

EAO: I think this is beyond the scope of what we’re doing here. Never understood “rg”.

SFC: Region is dialect and the region can be overridden. en-US in Britian.

EAO: How does that different from anything from “en-gb”?

SFC: You might get different localizations. You get units according to Britain but translations according to US. Maybe there are spelling differences.

RGN: Start of week.

EAO: Sounds like everything in Intl is subject to region overrides. Difference is for some other processor for en-GB while doing internationalize effectively for en-US.

RGN: I think we don’t even support the subtag at all in 402.

SFC: Let’s take a,ook at the PR.

RGN: No support for it.

SFC: I thought we supported it?

RGN: This kind of issue is the reason why. This is a sweeping change. But supported only in Locale.

SFC: I thought we had support for org (region override). Issue 370. Still open. I said, in 2024, that we can do this when LocaleInfo lands and then proceed.

RGN: I support that.

SFC: We should record this. My conclusion is: this shouldn’t be a normative PR, this should be a proposal. We need to discussion more. Work with CLDR, “zz” region. Not sure what to do with Anba’s PR. It’s a little bit, doesn’t solve the whole problem.

RGN: I just checked. One part of the spec that does pay attention to this: accessible from calendars of locale, hours of locale. GetCalendars, GetHourCycles are the only things looking for it. I agree: both of these make sense to do more broadly.

EAO: If we have a reason to support thee anywhere, we should support them everywhere.

RGN: this is bigger than a normative PR.

EAO: Yeah. One details: usd without urg will opt-in to the containing region.

RGN: Isn’t that already the case?

SFC: Mark Davis has clarified that subdivision then the regions and subregion have to match. So it’s not an override of any sort but specifying a subregion. But urg specified a region and a subdivision.

RGN: On the happy path, we augment information from earlier. But urg overwrites information. There’s a path where the subdivision doesn’t agree with the region but we don’t know what to do.

EAO: Sounds like we need a proposal.

SFC: Is anyone volunteering to be a champion of this proposal?

SFC: Let’s post the notes on the issue and we’ll get a volunteer. It’s time to fix this.

### Normative: Invoke RegionPreference during WeekInfoOfLocale

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/1051

SFC: This is kind of the same thing.

RGN: This one is something we can take. It’s already in place for calendarsoflocale so for it not to be in place for weekinfooflocale seems like an oversight.

SFC: In place for calendarsoflocale and the proposal is to add it to weekinfooflocale.

RGN: I’m willing to push this ahead of the broader proposal. This is bad. The fix is so small, too, that I’m in favor.

HJS: Isn’t it weird that the previous thing is inconsistent to have a different region lookiup for different things.

RGN: Yes, but so little is dependent on region. I want to see it fix. I want to see this fixed everywhere. But calendar and hour cycle pay attention to region override, so I support this normative PR. Week info and calendars are so coupled in my mind.

SFC: CalendarOfLocale has these steps. HoursCycle has those three steps. So WeekInfoOfLocale just doesn’t have those steps at all. So it make sense.

EAO: Do I understand correctly where hour cycle we get from a locale in two different ways might not match?

RGN: Yes.

EAO: We should fix that.

RGN: This is a narrow fix.

EAO: Just trying to compre this to the roader proposal idea we just discussed.

SFC: I think this fix has high priority. This is about info locale getters. Those lists are informational use. It would be nice if those were consistent with intl datetimeformat. I’d think it’s worthwhile fixing it so everyone benefits from present of urg subtag.

SFC: I’m going to post LGTM.

YSZ: Looks good to me for consistency reasons.

SFC: I’d say this is TG2 approval. Any other comments, you have until the next TG1 meeting to raise them.

### Examine the consequences of Henri's findings regarding the cessation of support for language subtags exceeding three characters in ECMA-402

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/951

HJS: If you look at the all counter list, we have pages 1-15…page 12, pretty far down the list. Looking what’s right next to it. This is a feature that has been accepted as part of the platform for a long time. Then we get a dropoff later on. It’s hard for me to understand how bad this is. These are features considered legitimate but which are on this level of usage. But the data gives me pause. It’s not just like “nothing to see here”. Something is going on. Something gives us this data, not sure what. Next step is to find out if these are language tags that are trying to do something useful, or if it’s garbage flowing to the API. I have manty other things to do. HArd to stay on top, so I’m not volunteering to design a further investigation. But if other folks would like to make progress, next step would be to find out what kinds of values they are. Are they garbage? Are there any major stes that have some unique value that show up on this counter? We don’t know if this is one relatively large site causing this, or if it’s garbage. That would be the next thing, I can’t volunteer right now. That’s unsatisfactoery but I can’t put more time into this right now.

SFC: For that next step: would that be a change that Mozilla would need to land into the use counter, or could they just work with the data?

HJS: I’m open to ideas, but I’m not sure what further use counter could be designed within our policies. If we had a handful of hypotheses about useful vs. garage and counters for obvious garbage, then I could review that if someone could develop a patch. Otherwise some kind of system that tries to locate some of these pages without it being a user browser history e.g. HTTP Archive. Not sure what other policies other browsers have. Maybe other use counters. At this point it would be useful to try to find these cases in HTTP Archive or some other place which would allow page featuess and look for concrete strings without violating user privacy.
SFC: OK. That says what we want but doesn’t say how. But it’s a couple of directions for ideas. As far as engines, ICU4X is still in a holding pattern. There’s a question of whether ICU4X wants to implement these rthigns.

HJS: Right. Other things have higher priority for me, unfortunately.

SFC: Alright. This is already in ES2026 milestone.


### Temperature check: Integration of identityFallback option in Intl.NumberFormat#formatRange

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/1064

SFC: Divan has previously opened some issues. He wants to expose this to the web.

RGN: 

SFC: Number formatter set to round to nearest integer, and we have … we get approximately five miles.

RGN: So when would you get “single”?

SFC: When inputs are the same. We want to show an interval/range. 

RGN: So that seems to differentiate from different sides. What differentiates approximately and single from just single?

SFC: If numbers are the same, we just display the number.

RGN: So there’s a mode where I want to not see the range at all if rounding fixes it…what this is doing is: if there’s a range, I want to preserve it only if there’s a distinction in the input.

SFC: Two ways numbers can be different, input vs. outpu. The full list is not necessarily client driven. I implemented this like eight years ago. I wasn’t sure, we didn’t know what the right behavior was. Now that it’s been 10 years, I can probably look at evidence to see what we should do. If there are use cases, then of course we should.

EAO: I’d have a strong preference for not introducing a test of equality on anything other than formatted results. Not sure if we want to compare a number and a string.

SFC: I think it’s a point of complexity. It would be good to not worry bout that.

EAO: I wouldn’t object to an option to using formatRange where we could opt in to get the different behavior.

RGN: And that’s what SFC is suggesting, auto-approximate or single. Single means same output to not be represented as a range/approximately. Agree that we don’t want to decide which values are equal on the input side.

SFC: Sounds like we don’t want to do the approximately or single value. As far fallback to range/single value, sounds like we’re open to doing. I can share feedback with Devon. Sounds like something easy to champion.

### Temperature check: Advancing Intl.PersonNameFormat for culturally aware name formatting

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/1061

SFC: Someone else who chimes in from time to time. Company? Individual contributor?

EAO: Part-time for W3C.

SFC: PersonName format. ICU4j implements person formatting. There’s a whole chapter of UTS 35. Thorough, lots of test cases. First CLDR proposal in the modern era, great test data. Given name, surname, credentials, correct order, correct casing, grammatical inflections, everything for locale-sensitive display.

RGN: Structured data?

SFC: Yes. No parsing of data. Works with records. One or more fields are present, then just go through the fields in the format you picked. IC4X implementation was made by a contributor. It could be graduated at any time if there’s any demand to make sure it’s production-ready. No C++ implementation.

SFC: (goes through the issue) (links to W3C doc) I guess this is giving web developers tips for how to do things correctly but not really a apsec.

HJS: I’d be interested in seeing how native apps with ICU4J for free, when/how do they use the functionality? Looking at the list of use cases, email recipients, for this to work in that case, email name would have to match the address book. Email coming in from the recipient. Government forms have names, but how often does the scope contain enough different naming conventions to do more than one kind of formatting. So I’d like to see what applications do there. What kind of use cases are there. Where do you really vary the name rendering? Seems like something that in principle exists in the world, but this isn’t coming from web developers. It seems that this is coming from HTML. I don’t see the use cases. CSSR feature? Do we have evidence of web developers asking for this?

EAO: Is there an NPM package available for this?

SFC: All good questions.
RGN: At least one: `format-name`. 

EAO: How much usage?

RGN: 209 weekly downloads. Low.

EAO: Alternative frontend for npm data.

SFC: This (namefully) seems to be a parser, not a formatter. Not sure if it does CLDR stuff. I think these are all good questions. I especially like HJS’s question: if the API requires a structured input, how likely is the application to have that?

EAO: Is this available on Android? Are any usage counters available? Can we get some sense of an idea of usage data?

SFC: Not sure if it’s on Android. Nothing pops up from a very quick search. I find the ICU4J formatter but I don’t see it in android ICU. Maybe a good step would be to get it in there. But to answer the question, it would be like 5 years before we had any data.

EAO: Overall, what I hear is that we don’t have strong signals of user need/desire.

SFC: I think it’s useful,. Another input that should go into our decision: would person name formatting be better on the web? Many people don’t even know to use a user name formatter. But if we present this is as well-documented part of Intl, then we fix something that might not be a known problem.

SFC: I think we should respond to Fuqioa with these questions, and that’s the temperature check.

RGN: I found name API dot org. Seems not t be so heavily used. Most people don’t recognize an issue here.

EAO: If we claim that, should be possible to find example of name formatting gone wrong.

HJS: It appears Apple platforms have had this API since iOS 15 and macOS 12 and other OSs aligned with that year. Maybe that’s a place to look for evidence of how often this gets used.

SFC: I love it. I think we’ve given Fuqiao several things to help strengthen the motivation for this proposal.

### Evaluation of time unit support 

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-sequence-units/issues/8

SFC: In Intl sequence units we have a table…based on discussion we had last month, we have the sanctioned sequence unit groups. Units allowed to be combined. This is the full list. I made this looking for all units that are integer multiplies of one another and same kind. I excluded time units. They’re complicated. We could support week and day if we want, and maybe hour and minute and second. But month and day are out. Day and hour are out. That’s reason one. Also, we already solved this problem woith DurationForamt. So time units aren’t currnelt included. Reason to add is: they are sanctioned units already, why exclude them? I think the reason why not to add them are stronger than adding them.

RGN: Explain “we already solved the problem in Temporal”?

SFC: How do you format duration time units? DurationFormat with Temporal.Duration.

RGN: How do you think time would be formatted differently?

SFC: We’re basically formatting a duration.

RGN: I guess this is basically a list format. I guess time isn’t problematic there.

SFC: Nothing we can’t do…nothing stopping us from week and day. Hour, minute, second also OK. Then we’d format using ListFormat. If we were to do that, we should not include day and hour (TZ problems), month and day (calendar problems).

RGN: What problems? How do timezones factor in?

SFC: By exporting the behavior here, we’re suggesting that developers can…we have the problem solved somewhere else. Durations are hard to format, and we did that work. We spent a long time working on that. We don’t want to encourage developers to format durations using sequence units. We want to make sure the correct behavior is DurationForamt. Anything taht touches time units, people should use DurationForamt. I don’t want Amount to support it. I think some may be harmless. But combining these things into sequences raises problems.

RGN: I think you’re overthinking. Encouraging developers to use domain-dedicated APIs is good. But formatting a sequence that includes months and days or days and hours isn’t really a formatting issue. It’s a valid sequence. We can choose not to sanction it, but I disagree that tere are problems and we should be afraid of them.

EAO: I’m with RGN. Any of the issues you represent regarding problems dealing with time stuff is effectively solved in DurationForamt and if we need to we can call into them. Shape of this API doens’t do any normalization, no balancing…format this value of feet-and-inches or days-and-hours together and you get output from them. We have style “percent” and unit formatting, you end up getting the exact same output if we were to do that with NumberFormat. I have a hard time that a JS developer getting comfortable with this API would think they shouldn’t use DurationFormat for their case. All the other signals we’re sending is that this is fine.

SFC: Let me rephrase. Intl DurationFormat supports formatting a raw options bag. Temporal.Duration is the expressive object that you should use as input t DurationFormat. Also supports raw input. The right unit is Amount for formatting. What I’m thinking is that time units should not be in scope for Amount, not well defined for a convertTo function. Duration is what you should use. For Intl DurationFormat the raw bag of units you can pass in has a 1-1 correspondence with Temporal.Duration. I think the set of raw options for Intl.NumberFormat has a 1-1 correspondence with Amount. I think having time units you can format but not use in Amunt is an inconsistency you can avoid. So what I mean is that we should probably not use it for Amount.

EAO: Then I guess it’s problematic that CLDR has minutes-and-seconds as a unit preference, person age preference.

SFC: Person age is special.

EAO: It’s still a thing in the data. Amount spec currently sayw it’s convertible. Year-person month-person we also have minutes-and-seconds in the data

SFC: We should think about media unit preference. We should think about that plugs together.

EAO: We should support minute-and-second.

RGN: Second that.

SFC: Disagree. We made a decision of Duration units with digital formats. Otheriwese DurationFormat could be NumberFormat. If amount were to support this kind of thign to format, we shouldn’t use Intl.NumberFormat to do this.

RGN: I disagree. We defined it in terms of CLDR’s units.xml, in which data is present. You can convert between these things. And you can format all these things.

SFC: We’ve defined Amount to use CLDR-scoped units, so for 262 wehave a better way to handleunits. We don’t have to include everything in CLDR. We can say we can do something better.

RGN: I oppose. We can say this gives you a wosee experience and you can use something else. But otherwise, we include. No need to define inclusions, it’s well defined.

SFC: We din’t want to add bad time into the web platform. Duration units is the answer. If we were to do this prior to Temporal, we would be doing something else. But we have a better way to do it. This isn’t about theoretical spec. It’s in service of a constituency. What’s best for users of the web. Developes should do ime correctly. They should use DurationFormat. The only reason to include time units is their presence in CLDR.

RGN: I disagree that there must be just one way to do it. Multiple ways to do it, different ways to do different things. For time, maybe you have a conversion form. Pick input from a category, get converted output in the same category. We’re just excluding some things. Of course for some applications DurationFormat is the better approach. But I don’t think that should be the only approach.

EAIO: Agree with RGN.

SFC: I don’t have much to add.

RGN: Topic change: this table is missing degree-arcminute-arcsecond. LEt’s fix that.

SFC: We can add them. We use them in the docs but I stopped using it because it’s not supported. If anything, it’s somethingfor the future.

RGN: Sequence units is itself a motivation for having these kinds of units. This is one of those unusual cases where many localizations aren’t simple list format. There’s dedicated rendering.

SFC: It’s actually just ListFormat. The way CLDR handles degree-minunte-second renders, in narrow form, uses thespecial characters and then strung together using a lit.

RGN: You take my point, though: this isn’t just a list, there are spefcial characters. This might be why someone even uses sequence formatting. Otherwise, they could just use list formatting directory.

SFC: I don’t want to engage in scope creep but I’d  e waiting to do a follow on.

RGN: I don’t see it as scope creep.

SFC: If there are use cases, then I think we can add them. Not sure about web sites actually use this. Is that what you mean by “this proposal is the motivation”?

RGN: Would you consider Wikipedia to be use case? In US English, cities have coordinates, and have the special symbols.

SFC: Sure. I still think I’d like it to be a separate proposal.

EAO: But these are clearly sequence units that just aren’t well supported.

SFC: Arcminutes and arcseconds are units that don’t need to be in a sequence. I’ve even seen milli arcseconds. In astronomy applications those are units that aren’t necessarily sequence units. Not saying “sequence units” means “arc minutes + seconds” is correct.

RGN: I’m not convinced. Formatting locations on the surface of the earth definitely should be supported.

SFC: I agree with you that minute+second is motivated given sequence units, but I don’t know if that’s useful for web developers.

