# December 12, 2020 Meeting

Attendees:

- Craig Cornelius - Google i18n (CCN)
- Eemeli Aro - OpenJSF (EAO)
- Felipe Balbontin - Google i18n (FBN)
- Frank Yung-Fong Tang - Google i18n, V8 (FYT)
- Jeff Walden - SpiderMonkey/Mozilla (JSW)
- Michael Saboff - Apple (MLS)
- Long Ho - Dropbox (LHO)
- Louis-Aimé de Fouquières - Invited Expert (LAF)
- Richard Gibson - OpenJS Foundation (RGN)
- Shane Carr - Google i18n (SFC), Co-Moderator
- Ujjwal Sharma - Igalia (USA), Co-Moderator
- Yusuke Suzuki - Apple (YSZ)
- Zibi Braniecki - Mozilla (ZB)
- Leo Balter - Salesforce (LEO)

Standing items:
- [Discussion Board](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/projects/2)
- [Status Wiki](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/wiki/Proposal-and-PR-Progress-Tracking) -- please update!
- [Abbreviations](https://github.com/tc39/notes/blob/HEAD/delegates.txt)
- [MDN Tracking](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402-mdn)
- [Meeting Calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=unicode.org_nubvqveeeol570uuu7kri513vc%40group.calendar.google.com)

## Discussion Topics
### formatRange for Stage 4

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-DateTimeFormat-formatRange/

FBN: Plan is still January. Still some open issues. Sent some PRs for Test262.  Waiting for LGTM from Anba on #25.

JSW: I'll ping Anba.  And, [pinged](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1653024).

FBN: I think we'll be done after that is submitted.  The other thing I'm waiting for is for fractionalSecondDigits to be submitted.

SFC: I believe that PR is in the same state as the Stage 4 PRs: we are waiting for Editor approval.


### API surface and scope guidelines #442

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/517

ZB: Prior art is important, but it also lets us know what is not a good solution. If the authors want to revisit it, that's a sign that the prior art might not be quality. Something more like, "it's been on the market for a long time, and no one sees the need to revise it." Or, alternatively, "everyone is already using it and we don't see any limitations of the current system." The other condition, which came from the time zone, is the separation between algorithms and data size.

SFC: It's hard to express the payload requirement. It's a value judgement based on the nature of the proposal.

EAO: What will these limitations mean for Intl.MessageFormat?

ZB: My expectation is that ECMA-402 implementation of MFv2 will happen in parallel with ICU deployment.

EAO: MFv2 will not satisfy the wide adoption requirement if we add that requirement.

SFC: I think the "best i18n practice" judgement call is sufficient for MFv2.

MLS: We're concerned that increased payload affects startup time.

LHO: When, e.g., there are new IANA time zones, there is already payload creep that we can't control.

MLS: We've agreed to support data growth of existing features that have data driven by political forces outside our control. ZB is suggesting adding data requirements for new features.

LHO: Are we talking about a specific threshold for data growth over time?

ZB: We could add more logic to the spec that allows engines to fall back and skip extra payload size.

LHO: As far as the spec is concerned, you can ship an ECMA-402 implementation with no data. Adding new functionality with a caveat of a data requirement might be okay. ECMA-402 is already best-effort, and implementations already produce different output.

SFC: Not all implementations are equal. JSC doesn't need to ship any extra data, because they use the data from the OS.

RGN: The data backing the specification is left up to the implementation. We should be best-effort, but provide guidance. I think conformance is possible with a single locale. It might not be the best user experience.

LHO: +1

MLS: My concern is that we can specify certain output that is different from what ICU provides, so there is a mapping that provides different data. We should make sure our spec doesn't require a certain backing library.

FYT: In theory, a browser could synchronously download data when it's needed, and that's spec-conformant.

MLS: If we design a spec that requires browsers to spend 5 hours to download data, that's a problem.

ZB: We can look at the pragmatic practicality of the web. What is the ECMA-402 barrier on the impact of a new browser to enter the market? If we focus on the implementations represented in this group, we may make it harder for others to enter the market, and the money required to implement the specification is higher and higher. I would like to see that balanced.

FYT: I think we need to consider what is considered big changes over time. 20 KiB is not a huge change anymore, except maybe about IoT.

SFC: I see the bullet points here as Stage 2 implementation requirements. Implementability is a Stage 3 requirement. For example, that's what I had to do with NumberFormat v2 with the quantity of measurement units.

LHO: Facebook has an implementation picking one API at a time to implement.

SFC: I don't think we can plan for a theoretical future implementation, because we don't understand what their requirements are. For example, I cited the iOS example where data size is not actually a problem, and it could be the same in Fuchsia. If we want to make ECMA-402 implementable in certain environments, we could invite folks from e.g. Moddable to this call.

SFC: My suggested next steps: check in PR #517 and consider it Stage 2 entrance requirements. We should consider implementation issues, like locale data, as Stage 3 entrance criteria. We will discuss this issue with TC39-TG1 to hammer down what specific requirements should be.

RGN: SGTM

### eraDisplay option for Intl.DateTimeFormat for Stage 1

https://github.com/Louis-Aime/proposal-intl-eradisplay

Slides: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1CABEQP_U-vCUxGKXbJmaZKvJZHEdFZZtAHGAOnRbrCY/edit

LAF: (presents slides)

FYT: I see the value of "also" and "always", but I don't see "never".

LAF: When using gregory or the standard Western calendar, if you talk about very ancient times, the era could be inferred from the context.

FYT: That makes sense from the book/text, but how about for the web?

SFC: I think it's best for spec consistency to keep "never".

EAO: You could have a tool that formats dates relative to a point of time in the past, and you would want to hide the Japanese era.

FYT: It could be more costly to evaluate at format time rather than construction time.

LAF: If CLDR could hide the display of the era, I would be satisfied.

SFC: You can initialize both formatters in the constructor, and decide which one to use in the formatter.

EAO: I would like to be able to display the era by itself, without any other information.

FYT: Time zone and era are special in our spec in the sense that if you request those fields, you get the data rendered too, which is inconsistent.

EAO: We ought to handle the era as time scope.

SFC: Good for Stage 1? (reminds committee what that means)

CCN, ZB, JSW, FYT, RGN, USA: +1

#### Consensus

Approved for Stage 1

### Intl.LocaleMatcher for Stage 1

https://github.com/longlho/proposal-intl-localematcher

LHO: (presents proposal)

FYT: Currently, ECMA-402 for all the Intl objects, internally, have a concept of locale matching. That negotiation isn't exposed to the outside world. Your proposal is to say that in certain cases, it may be desired to use this feature outside, like to load your own translations?

LHO: Right, so that message, datetime, and number are coherent.

FYT: I wonder whether the default locale should come from the outside.

LHO: It is a user's choice: typically, for US websites, it's English, and that's different for web sites in other parts of the world.

FYT: ???

LHO: If you request a non-supported locale, the current behavior is it falls back to the default locale.

FYT: I see, so it's basically the fallback locale.

EAO: Does it make sense to have this API designed to match locales? Would the same purposes be fulfilled if you had a localeCompare function?

LHO: Technically yes, which is what the spec already encompasses. You iterate through the requested and available locales and see if there is a match. So the API you described is a stepping stone to this API.

SFC: A distance function is a good idea.

RGN: Probably relevant: https://twitter.com/hsivonen/status/1301456494534234117

EAO: Fully agree with that sentiment.

ZB: How about Unicode extensions? It caters to the final formatter, but if you have nested formatting, you might have negotiation within negotiation. You might have different available locales between i18n and l10n.

SFC: There are a lot of open questions. I think this proposal is appropriate for Stage 1. We should hammer out these questions at Stage 1.

ZB: We should coordinate closely with MessageFormat v2. I may make this proposal dependent on MFv2.

LHO: There are also images, voice, and video. It's not just about text. So I don't think the two should be strongly coupled.

FYT: ???

LHO: The strawman implementation I have is resolved locale. My initial testing is that users don't really understand how extensions are relevant, so there's no strong reason to choose the resolved locale layer versus the matcher layer.

FYT: So it sounds like from your perspective, the two are equivalent.

ZB: I think (1) we should support extensions, and (2) the result of this function should be a list, not a string.

LHO: I'm neutral on that.

SFC: Stage 1?

CCN, LAF, FYT: +1

#### Conclusion

Stage 1 approved

### Intl Locale Info

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale-info

SFC: I think we should move measurementSystem from .unitInfo to .defaults.

FYT: SGTM

SFC: Should we use lists for everything in the .defaults object? An ordered list of preferences.

FYT: SGTM. Should we call it something else like "preferred"?

SFC: We could separate the locale data getter from the resolved-preference getter.

FYT: I like one getter. If you want pure locale data, just remove the extension keywords.

SFC: OK, then maybe call it .prefs, so you can call locale.prefs.calendar[0].

JSW: Aren't there places that use a mixture of metric and imperial systems for different units, even beyond US/metric/UK?  Maybe worth distinguishing on a unit by unit basis.

USA: +1. This is way more common in the global south imo. So certain locales would use an arbitrary mix of metric and "ussystem". We should spend more time investigating this.

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-smart-unit-preferences

SFC: Ready for Stage 2?

SFC, JSW, CCN, ZB: +1

#### Conclusion

Stage 2 approved

### Extend TimeZoneName Option Proposal

https://github.com/FrankYFTang/proposal-intl-extend-timezonename

FYT: (explains proposal)

SFC: To advance this directly to Stage 2, we'll need to answer questions about broad appeal, and prepare to discuss the payload increase.

ZB: +1. Should we discuss how the spec should handle the fallback? If longLocation is not available, use long?

SFC: I think that makes sense to go in the spec.

RGN: Normatively? There's no good way to test for that.

FYT: I don't think it can be a normative
