# 2021-11-04 ECMA-402 Meeting
## Logistics

### Attendees

- Shane Carr - Google i18n (SFC), Co-Moderator
- Romulo Cintra - Igalia (RCA), MessageFormat Working Group Liaison
- Frank Yung-Fong Tang - Google i18n, V8 (FYT)
- Yusuke Suzuki - Apple (YSZ)
- Myles C. Maxfield - Apple (MCM)
- Zibi Braniecki - Mozilla (ZB)
- Richard Gibson - OpenJS Foundation (RGN)
- Craig Cornelius - Google i18n (CCN)

### Standing items

- [Discussion Board](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/projects/2)
- [Status Wiki](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/wiki/Proposal-and-PR-Progress-Tracking) -- please update!
- [Abbreviations](https://github.com/tc39/notes/blob/master/delegates.txt)
- [MDN Tracking](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402-mdn)
- [Meeting Calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=unicode.org_nubvqveeeol570uuu7kri513vc%40group.calendar.google.com)
- [Matrix](https://matrix.to/#/#tc39-ecma402:matrix.org)

## Status Updates

### Editor's Update

RGN: Some advancements at the most recent plenary. Pending merges.

RCA: +1

### MessageFormat Working Group

RCA: Trying to restructure our meetings. Going to focus on case selection, and soon on message elements, pattern resources, and investigate steps for next year. Also made a presentation at the Unicode Conference.

ZB: Established a preliminary roadmap that we'll present on Monday.

### Proposal Status Changes

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/wiki/Proposal-and-PR-Progress-Tracking


SFC: Intl Locale Info ? 

FYT : I need to reflect changes proposed at plenary into the proposal, 

ZBI : We are currently in BETA and we still cleaning up 

https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1693576

SFC : Intl Enumeration ?

ZBI : Got merged two months ago, shipped in FF93

https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1670033


SFC : NFv3 ? 

YSZ: Will land soon in JSC, we currently implementing those feature against ICU 68 that may miss some data to finish implementation

SFC: I will check if there is something missing in ICU 70 for NFv3

SFC : Intl.DurationFormat is Stage 3 :) 


## Pull Requests

### Normative: Fix spec bugs in numberformat.html caused by Unified NumberFormat

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/572 

SFC: We were waiting for Leo to merge this one but i think we have approvals and we could merge it wdyt?  Would be good to have test for it 

RGN: I think we are good to go

FYI : This is a rollback PR ? 

SFC: RGN could you check with Ujjwall to be approved

#### Conclusion

Approved to be merged , last check with Ujjwall

### Normative: Add hourCycle to opt before passing to FormatMatcher

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/571

SFC: Could you check with Ujjwall to get this merged ? 

#### Conclusion

Approved 

## Proposals and Discussion Topics
### Strictness of selectRange #65

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-numberformat-v3/issues/65

SFC: Should we be more strict and follow the behaviour of formatRange or the actual behaviour os select ?

RGN: I tend to think we should be aligned with formatRange.

RCA: Me too.

#### Conclusion

We have RGN and RCA agreeing on being more strict we need to apply changes in the spec to have  the extra check for  `undefined`
If  start is undefined or start is undefined, throw a TypeError exception.

### Should ToIntlMathematicalValue accept non-decimal number strings?

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-numberformat-v3/issues/54

YSZ : If we accept the change this may have another affectations 

SFC : The proposal intends to maintain the full precision, I’m inclined to accept arbitrary precision, ICU is not able to do it, in case we accept it browser should convert it.

FYT: We can propose that ICU supports this

SFC: I think we should accept all grammars currently accepted, and the only behavior difference is that we should resolve the numerical values to be mathematical values, instead of downcasting them to Number.

RGN: Without having specifically reviewed everywhere that it applies, I generally agree with preserving the increased precision inherently possible with string input.
#### Conclusion

Adopt SFC's recommendation above, pending additional feedback from RGN.


### Intl.Segmenter V2

https://github.com/FrankYFTang/proposal-intl-segmenter-v2

FYT: Would like to present at the next TC39 meeting about it. We get consistent feedback from clients that they need line break. I'm also introducing batch mode, in order to optimize performance of splitting an entire string. The function call is the bottleneck; a single call could make this more efficient.Next time I may bring a more concrete user case, but the intention is to present in next meeting

MCM: We should discuss these two features independently. Batch mode in particular it passes the smell test, we would like that would be a perf improvement at least in 2 browsers, we only need a sampling to benchmark that, and have that proof that this would really improve the performance

FYT: Are you suggesting breaking this down in two proposals ? may be a possibility 

MCM: Not right now. But I do think they are separable.

MCM: For line breaking, canvas and JS has never been able to paragraph layout the main reason for this where all sorts of effects that this can have , this will allow a more flexible way to CSS layout, This work is in Houdini. Once that is shipped, it will have utilities to do line breaking.

FYT: I think the use case is not what you are thinking , the case you mention is not for paragraph but instead applies to a title , example the Pie Chart where normally is one liner but sometimes it breaks in two lines this was the use case … but I agree that this may be important also for paragraph layout

MCM: For me paragraph is anything larger than one line 

ZBI:  We have positive feedback from our team regarding the API, we don’t expect this API to do line breaks but returns line break opportunities, that’s correct ?

FYT: The API itself doesn't need font width. The caller may need to have some knowledge of font width.

MCM: In order to use this API, you need to know the width of the text.

FYT: Except the monospace cases

SFC: The motivations for this are the ability of reducing the code size to do text layout without the heavy weight of shipping extra code. They will still ship OpenType and/or Harfbuzz.

ZBI:  Not understand why consumer needs font information ? and why this invalidate the need of this API ?

MCM: My argument is that layout is complex and fonts are involved meaning that all those factors increases complexity, This kind of use case must be threaded in a holistic way similar from the work that Houdini is doing

FYT: I agree that this is a complicated operation. I think that's exactly the reason we should have this API, because we shouldn't assume that someone else can do a better job than us.

ZBI: You are proposing that this work should be aligned with Houdin worki to design this API? My concern is that I would like these two things to be aligned, but we have environments that will not be able to use Houdini. Houdini work doesn’t invalidate the needs of this API, Do you have any timeline about this ?

MCM: For the first point, I assume you're talking about Node.js.  Node.js doesn't need this, because they have native modules; I think that's a separate concern. And as far as timeline, 

SFC : Do you want to wrap up this in the form of a proposal for Stage 1? Then we can talk about it in the next meeting
#### Conclusion

FYT will present next ECMA402 meeting a proposal for stage 1

### textInfo.direction is a very simplified model of reality

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale-info/issues/59

SFC: This was discussed at the Unicode Conference last month. Right now it only talks about RTL and LTR. However, direction is much more  complicated. The question is , what should we be returning ? What is mainly the use case for these options ? Cause this must influencitate the Spec  

SFC : Frank is a champion of this topic

FYT: So the original thing is that this is based on what Mozilla has. It's for setting the global direction. If you have a web page and you know… there is no page that has a single structure. The author needs to dynamically set some layout, e.g., based on the data received. Javascript can be used to figure out the alignment and direction for that particular text. For example, user comments may be in a different language with different direction needs. JS could tell the HTML what settings should be used.

FYT: One of the prior arts is that CLosure has bidi features. This feature I think is designed to provide what is a common request; people who work with bidi need this facility. In google translate user can type their source language and is able to change to different languages that changes the global direction, 


Of course the internal layout engine can look at the text, but in many cases, there is no text that can be analyzed to set the directions. Japanese, Chinese, Korean can use vertical text, but not commonly used online yet. Mongolian, however, requires vertical, but it’s not very well addressed yet.

Will the current design block expected uses?

CCN: How much of the complexity of directionality that was laid out at the conference is necessary for us to consider at this point? Do you think we can do just basic horizontal/vertical, or should we do text orientation? The characters within vertical text could be rotated.


FYT: This API is not covering layout at this point , is something on top of layout just giving the information about the global direction of the layout,
Just what is the direction of the layout, not the detailed orientation of characters within each text segment. That’s more appropriate for CSS.

Example : we have an empty textbox the user type something with a selected language we need to “notify” the layout engine to render it correctly 

The first character(s) typed may not give info about the text direction, i.e., many be neutral, so this proposal would give the HTML the needed information based on the language setting for this box, e.g., RTL / LTR. This also includes text alignment.

SFC: Like to call on Zibi or Myles for their comments, esp. for Mozilla’s point of view. Is this possibly extensible from current LTR/RTL?

ZBI: The initial design was based on how Gecko was available to work with as boolean LTR/RTL ,jkew and others were raising that this may need to be extended. He suggested that we could separate rtl/ltr from a boolean. Let me find it.

SFC: Finding that documentation would be useful.

MCM: Is field direction something from the developer telling the browser or the reverse?

FYT: The developer tells the browser, here's a break. What's the direction? It used to be hardcoded, e.g., Hebrew, Persian, etc? But now for languages such as Pashto (Afghanistan), dynamically setting may be necessary. For example, languages such as Turkick (?) may be RTL (Arabic script) or LTR (Cyrllic)

MCM: Agree with you , I think is meaningless , I just propose to remove this entire field

FYT: I don't quite get it. You can pass in Turkish with Arabic or Cyrillic and it will give you different answers.

MCM: The example you shared makes total sense a script can be written in different directions in different contexts.

FYT: But how do you get that info? This API does not forbid that. It tells you something is ltr, but the developer could still choose rtl. It gives a default answer for the common case.

MCM : Common cases already handled by DIR attribute. This can already be handled by setting DIR=”auto” by detecting the first strongly directional character.

FYT: In the majority of cases, this won’t work based on the user initial input ??????

MCM: I don't understand the Google Translate example.  Google Translate knows, if the user selects a language, how to lay out the text box the user types into. Browser API is only useful when the browser doesn’t understand what language the user is typing.

FYI: WHen language is already set, there’s no problem. However, if detection works only on the characters input, the direction of the box could jump from LTR to RTL and back, depending on what characters have been entered. The paragraph text should not be jumping direction.

MCM: For this example, I don't understand how this API is the best solution. So there should be an attribute on the text box that accepts the language. A JavaScript program shouldn't have to go update the dir attribute. The text box itself should handle it.

FYT: Yeah, except for text alignment.

MCM: the solution should be in the internal implementation of the text box...

ZBI: The motivations for this feature where… It’s not just about text. When the user has selected language Arabic or Polish or French (for example)... We will have particular iconography that follows directionality, which follows the CSS dir tag. We can populate that based on the textInfo.direction. Are we really concerned about what may be an edge case where we are concerned about the direction of the text (???)

RCA: Clarifying question: As I understand this, you will be able to set the behavior of the text box before any input. Is that correct?

MCM: (response to Zibi) If there’s a website that’s localized, the site knows the language of the content. In that case, it’s easy to pick the right setting, which are determined by the author.

ZBI: I disagree with you here. You need to do the selection at some point. Ultimately we take it from CLDR.

MCM: It’s part of the localization data. The web site doesn't need to ask at runtime what the direction is. It already knows, because the web site has been localized.

FYT: May I respond? This suggests that the server should know this information …

MCM: 

FYI: On server side, I need to write the code to generate the correct direction information.

ZBI: Live use case: https://github.com/mozilla-b2g/gaia/blob/master/shared/js/intl/l20n-client.js#L31-L35. This code helped inspire the mozIntl that ended up with this proposal. I know I'm not the only one using it. In the absence of this API, people will assume only the binary choice of RTL and LTR.

SFC: This is already at stage 3, so if we need to make a change, we need to 
The most likely outcome is that this discussion should go into the record, but we don;t have enough to actdually change the proposal.

ZBI: Shane’s comment may be comflating two different issues/aspects.


SFC : We don’t have to answer all the questions now. Extensible is one question. The other is …..

ZBI : You’re saying we can separate orientation from direction ? 

Separate Myles’s concerns about exposing this API at all.

SFC: NExt steps.. we are preparing to flip the bit on this. ZBI, should we block on these concerns?


ZBI. I would be happy to have opinion from ICU4C regarding those API’s

SFC: Action item for proposal: get ICU’s opinion on this. It’s clear that this proposal was not a mistake. It’s at stage 3, ready to ship in browsers. This is probably not the right place to revisit or change the proposal - too late to revisit. We should move forward with this.

ZBI: I would like to give more space for his Myles objections. MCM’s concern’s should not be ignored.

MCM: Distinguish the both procedures is important , this is not a real objection but i'm just sharing my concern about this fact, curious as to how a website could have a full localization and still not be aware of the direction of the language

ZBI: I’m in opposition to MCM’s point of view. (?)

SFC: Let’s make sure this feature is open to extension and that we should get additional information. THis is data that we should be able to collect.

ZBI: FYT I’m wondering if in the ICU4C implementation those changes  zbraniecki@mozilla.com???...

FYT: If I have a clear idea on how to solve it, I;ve already solved it. I recognize that there’s a need.Google does not have the experience with vertical layout, but MS and other groups should have this information.

ZBI: I don’t think we need a new model. Would it be sufficient to replace “Direction” with “Orientation”, which might avoid the need to have both attributes.

SFC: The main need is to return something that can be set in the DIR attribute. The action is for FYT to tie up the loose ends.

ZBI via Chat: Here are some links for more context:

- https://unicode-org.github.io/icu-docs/apidoc/released/icu4c/classicu_1_1Locale.html#add806eb089dba37d5d7de725886b841b
- https://searchfox.org/mozilla-central/source/intl/icu/source/common/unicode/uloc.h#1028-1046
- MDN has a note on directionality of the textinput - https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/dir
- also http://www.dataxsecure.com/js/closure/goog.bck.201310042312/docs/closure_goog_i18n_bidi.js.html which is wildely used by web developers

Mozilla historically also used `isRtl` but I shifted it to `getDirection` to de-westernize the  API

FYT via Chat: "goog.i18n.bidi.isRtlLanguage(lang) ⇒ boolean" 

ZBI via Chat: History on `getLocaleInfo` in Gecko:

 - Original bug - https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1312053
 - Request for direction for Reader mode in Firefox - https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1320265
 
This does not invalidate Myles concern, which I understand as "Mozilla l10n package should provide information on its direction, rather than just the locale name to be put through this API to retrieve the direction"

But I'm wondering if Myles you see a reason for which Reader Mode in Firefox would like to at runtime/client-side get a hint on direction of the document in absence of the `dir` attribute, and in presence of the `lang` attribute, this API would help?

### Change Array.prototype.toLocaleString to use ListFormat

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/422

SFC: Options and Web compatibility problems remain.

SFC: Options how o we pass options to formatters, e.g., number format. Do we pass the full options bag, or do we scope it out like the analysis outlined in points 1A vs. 1B. There are some preferences noted and some ideas added in the discussion.

SFC: Three options:
a. name-spaced options bag
b. a second options argument
c. a single options argument, but we use namespaces to avoid collisions

RGN: Would the two-argument form be supported by 262? I believe there are restrictions on what extensions are supported, especially when it comes to parameters.

SFC: If we were to make the ListFormat's toLocaleString have a 3rd argument, that may be illegal?

RGN: Right.

RGN: It looks like all the toLocaleStrings in ECMA-262 support 2 parameters, and I don't think we can go past that.

SFC: Why not?

RGN: Because extensions are limited. 262 limits it because it uses up the namespace. We would need agreement from the 262 authors before pursuing the second option argument (2nd possibility)

FYT: We should rule that out because it changes the function's signature.

RGN: I actually like that idea, but it’s quite a deviation from what we currently have.

SFC: What do you think about the other two options?

FYT: Before we discuss that, I have another question. What if we just park the question about the style, will passing in additional information create a conflict.
We have a Temporal Duration and a Temporal plain Datetime will have a conflict , because we are passing same option-bag to all parts and may conflict

RGN: do we have heterogenous arrays now?

SFC: one example of the style option having very different meanings in different formatters, e.g., DateTime vs. Number format uses “style”. A list  of options that had “style” would be ambiguous because of this difference in meaning.

RGN: I don’t this this is very important.

SFC: We currently support heterogeneous arrays, but not very well. One doesn’t need to use toLocaleString function.

RGN: At this time, I wouldn't want to see depth limiting. It would be much clearer to invoke toLocaleString on each element of the array. If you have an array of arrays, then you're recursing, which is fine.

ZBI: Is this OK, because what you are constructing is very complicated, with list of items, each of which could be a list. (Gave example.)

RGN: Yeah, but that doesn't strike me as a coherent use case, and if it is, they can flatten the array before invoking toLocaleString on it.

ZBI: This is a position that we did encountered before , not opposed to it but  this is a novel way of thinking about Intl behavior.

FYT: I raised this issue , but feeling that has a complexity that may be worthy to tackle in a proper way, If this convenience function is creating so much complexity, just let it be what it is - it may be an impossible task to properly design this.

RGN: I think I have a similar position.

FYT: Let’s cut our losses and leave this.

ZBI: Asking about example of creating a ListFormat, then calling .format …

FYT: ListFormat accepts only strings, so not a problem.

ZBI: agrees that this can be very hairy, maybe a complexity explosion.

SFC: I still think that this is a nice feature and think it is a solvable problem, we can add this to the backlog and revisit later.

FYT: Every time toLocaleString is called… this is for backward compatibility.

SFC: Out of time. Let’s talk more about next steps. Closing the meeting for today.

