Attendees: Nebojsa Ciric (NC), Frank Tang (FT),  Daniel Ehrenberg (DE), Shane Carr (SC), Felipe Balbontin (FB), Ben Michel (BM), Richard Gibson (RG), Mark Davis (MD), Zibi Braniecki (ZB), Sathya Gunasekaran (SG)

1. Bugs/PRs against ECMA-402
    1. Unicode Locale Identifier: Propose to change the text in [6.2 Language Tags](https://ecma-international.org/ecma-402/#sec-language-tags), [6.2.2 IsStructurallyValidLanguageTag](https://ecma-international.org/ecma-402/#sec-isstructurallyvalidlanguagetag), [6.2.3 CanonicalizeLanguageTag](https://ecma-international.org/ecma-402/#sec-canonicalizelanguagetag) and [DefaultLocale](https://ecma-international.org/ecma-402/#sec-defaultlocale) from referring to "BCP 47 language tags" to "UTS35 Locale Unicode Identifier" to align with what we agree in end of Nov. See [https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/289](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/289)
        1. FT: Several places in the Locale spec refer to the old RC instead of the new BCP47 syntax.
        2. DE: Let's do that change. What about anba's comment? Seems like that should be out of scope, and resolved at the UTS 35 level.
        3. DE to merge patch with Frank's changes.
    2. Intl.NumberFormat: [Skip FractionDigits if we set SignificantDigits](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/306) also [PR307](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/307)
        1. SC: The current status quo of this function, which resolves the minimum/maximum significant digits, saves fractiondigits to the intl object always, and significant digits only conditionally. But this value is only used conditionally. My other proposal made this happen only conditionally; this PR that Frank made makes this change explicit, and can be made independently of the larger NumberFormat result.
        2. FT: I wanted to put this into Ecma 402 in advance of SC's proposal.  I was doing prep work in V8, and this change is necessary for a more efficient implementation.  It is good to remember one or the other but not both.
        3. DE: This goes a bit against what I saw to do; SC was trying to do one large change rather than "dribs and drabs".  I would be okay with having this PR out and available for review, but I like SC's Unified NumberFormat doing the changes at once.  I think Unified NumberFormat is not too far out.
        4. FT: Okay.  I'm fine with that.
    3. Double rounding: [#128](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/128). Web reality is that Intl.NumberFormat uses "short form" rounding, but Number.prototype.toPrecision use "long form" rounding. Shane prefers to keep web reality and encode it in the spec and test262.
        1. NC: We had this discussion in the main group and reached the conclusion to round up; no one had consistency concerns.
        2. DE: I think the spec should say that implementations have the ability to choose a human-readable representation for these strings.
        3. DE: We should update the spec text.
        4. SC: Should this be a PR or thrown into the big bag?
        5. DE: Shane can decide; if in doubt; PR sounds good.
        6. SC: I will make a PR to ecma402.
        7. FT: How about test262?
        8. DE: We can make the test dependent on the locale tag so that implementations can make this ILD
        9. FT: Can you point me to the test dependent logic?  If you can, I will own the test change.  And I would like you to review the PR.
        10. DE: I will do both.
    4. locale returned by resolvedOptions()
        1. Strip out u- key/value from locale returned by resolvedOptions() for those already in RelevantExtensionKeys [#311](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/311)
            1. DE: I've never really understood the motivation behind this part of locales.  NC, do you have a sense of why locale in resolvedOptions is so complicated?
            2. NC: The only reason for resolvedOptions is to deal with fallbacks and to show people what actually happened.  So anything we do for locale is to show people what parameters were used.
            3. DE: Why does the locale include any Unicode extension keys?
            4. NC: If you look at the spec across everything… there were ICU issues where we had to go with this asymetic thing where some options had to be in locale, and others in options.
            5. FT: We're talking about, when we called resolvedOptions, no matter how you input it in, the options should all be in resolvedOptions.  All other information is already in the other properties.
            6. DE: I can think that you can re-use that locale for another Intl object, but otherwise I don't see a reason to do it.
            7. DE: I like Frank's suggestion; there's a web compatibility issue, but I think maybe Chrome can ship it and see if there's a problem.
            8. NC: Can we currently specify all options in options and not locale?
            9. DE: No; Norbert was opposed to full parity between options and locale.  So we want to make sure there is consistency between locale and the options object.  For example, collator phonebook order is in locale but not the options object.  So if you make resolvedOptions.locale just the locale and not the unicode extension keys, then you lose information.
            10. FT: I thought the Unicode extension would be morphed or removed.
            11. DE: If you make a Collator with phonebook, the only place you find it in resolvedOptions is in the locale string.
            12. FT: If it's not what we resolved to… 
            13. DE: Right now, it's removed from the locale tag only if there's another setting that overrides it.
            14. NC: There are two things in Collator specifically.  There are some flags for collator that are not present as key/value in the options object.  So the question is, should we make this symmetrical, and then cut things off from the locale?
            15. DE: I think we should review Norbert Lindenberg's rationalle about why we don't have full parity.  I will pull up that discussion and send it out.
            16. MD: The collation keys allow flexibility in certain cases.  We try to give the options that are most appropriate for certain languages.  For example, people prefer to have digits at the end of a list, as opposed to before alphabetic terms.  So there are a bunch of these options where we give a default and try to make it a better default for the language.  One of the options is deprecated, that let you do fine-grained tweaking, so we decided to split up the characters into lumps.
            17. DE: Our concerns were more meta: you can pass options either through Unicode extension keys, or via an options bag.  And we were thinking of flattening that parity, and we wanted to do due diligence.
            18. MD: Parity makes sense and is easier to explain to people.
            19. NC: At some point we had some options that could only be passed through the extension part.
            20. MD: You need to have some way to specify which one wins
            21. ZB: Norbert felt that using the cu extension key for currency is not useful, because locale can come from the user.  And for that reason, we ignore the cu extension key.  As another example, we are missing the numbering option.  I understand the reason not to listen to the cu option.
            22. MD: Yeah, there are some cases in other circumstances where the locale is essentially the only thing that you pass through every layer.  So time zone and currency are two examples to get around those lossy interfaces.  I'm happy to respond offline.
                1. [Here’s the issue](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/105).
        2. ResolveLocale drop Unicode extension keys without values [#223](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/223) also see [PR302](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/302) and [test262/PR1995](https://github.com/tc39/test262/pull/1995) - the "-u-kn" got dropped issue. Also [intl-locale/issues/65](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale/issues/65)
            1. FT: kf-true doesn't make sense
            2. DE: Let's take this as an action to address offline.
            3. FT: If we address the first issue, it should make this clearer. This will be a one-line change to fix the issue.
2. Stage 3 APIs
    1. [Intl.Locale](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale)
        1. [Simplified the change to 2.1 CanonicalizeLocaleList](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale/issues/68)
            1. DE: I had put this in the spec at the specific request of Mozilla.  If someone goes and overwrites toString, it should still be using the real Locale and not the prototype that someone put on top of it.
            2. FT: So you're saying that the behavior should not depend on user-writable behavior?
            3. DE: Yeah, and we have experience that adding observable options dependency is bad.
            4. FT: Okay, I agree.  Let's kill the PR.
    2. [Intl.RelativeTimeFormat](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-relative-time)
        1. What is blocking us to move this to Stage 4? [Chrome/v8 already shipped. Mozilla "Supported (formatToParts missing" per Zibi]
            1. DE: Mozilla is not here so it's hard to make progress.
                1. ZB: [Mozilla’s status is covered in bug1473229](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1473229)
            2. SC: I am actively making sure ICU has full coverage of formatToParts
            3. FT: Mozilla is using the C API
            4. DE: They sometimes use C++, unlike Edge
            5. DE: Action item to figure out what's going on and put for Stage 4 if possible (but I won't do it without formatToParts)
    3. [Intl.ListFormat](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-list-format)
        1. [Move GetOption of "localeMatcher" before "type" and "style"](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-list-format/pull/36)
            1. DE: Merged!
    4. [Intl.Segmenter](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-segmenter)
        1. [Is this an API for iterating segments, or boundaries?](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-segmenter/issues/59)
            1. Richard Gibson will add more detail in the ticket
            2. NC: This was a major point of contention for the first proposal in 2012. I believe ICU points in between. Do we want to push for the other one?
            3. RG: Let's end up with something internally consistent. I'll sketch the alternatives. They are logically equivalent, but what we have right now is a mixture, and I don't like that.
            4. FT: The "break" concept is confusing for types of words/sentences/graphemes--which one are you referring to?
            5. DE: Now that we don't have line breaks, I think we can consolidate on segments and fix whatever off-by-one issues there are. Let's revisit and consider Richard's fixes at the next meeting.
            6. RG will take action item to prepare and clean up the changes to consolidate on segment, to discuss next meeting.
            7. MD: We explicitly iterate over boundaries and not segments, since boundaries are more useful. If we're searching for words, you can test for a word boundary on either side--you can test for word boundaries, where things don't make sense to test for words. For "San Francisco", the word boundaries would be before the S, after the n, before the F, and after the o. One of the segments is a space, which is clearly not a word. Using boundaries is more useful for implementation.
            8. DE: ???
            9. MD: The most useful feature of the word boundary stuff is, as you're walking over boundaries, you've seen stuff and typically going through a state machine, so some of the features you put in for that is, is there a letter or a number in this stuff?  If you wanted to do a full analysis of what was the stuff between the boundaries, you need to go deeper.  You could leave that part off, but we've found that useful in practice.
            10. DE: We saw that we would need soft or hard line break opportunity, but are there other cases?
            11. MD: Line break is useful for things other than line breaks, because there are breaks in ways people are used to having.  For example, breaking at line breaks for SMS messages is more useful than breaking at a word.  I think it might be a mistake to exclude line breaks; you could take a conservative approach, but line breaks are used in more circumstances than just laying out text.
            12. DE: Is there a good reference that has these use cases for line breaks?
            13. MD: We'd need to do research, but SMS is a common case.
            14. FT: Why do you use line break instead of word break for SMS?
            15. MD: There's a line break before F in San Francisco, but not after the n; especially for other languages like Japanese, there is a big difference.
            16. DE: Is everyone convinced by Mark's explanation that we should use break instead of segment iteration?  Your explanation made a lot of sense.
        2. [{granularity: "line"} promotes reimplementing paragraph layout in script](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-segmenter/issues/49)
            1. DE: Tab suggested that we should address this in a couple of years in a unified way in Houdini
            2. NC: Code-wise, it's trivial to go either way in this change (with or without line breaks)
            3. DE: Tab estimated that it would take a year or two for the change to get through Houdini, so in a year or two, we can revisit this and consider adding this to Ecma402 if Houdini is off track.
            4. NC: Will Houdini also break things other than lines?
            5. DE: No, Houdini will have a line layout API.  And the Ecma402 is missing things like hyphenation and text width measurement.
            6. NC: With Node.js, we won't have CSS.
            7. DE: I'm involved with some efforts to get more HTML and CSS like things in Node.js, and people also use polyfills
            8. NC: So about hyphenation, the best we can do are some open-source libraries.
            9. NC: We should do segmentation in EcmaScript, but not have line in EcmaScript for now.
            10. DE: It would be weird to ship duplicated hyphenation and line libraries, since Blink has its own hyphenation.  So it makes sense to ship this in one place or the other.
            11. NC: It makes sense that line breaking should be its own service; it could use machine learning versus rule-based, for example.
            12. FT: I have no strong opposition, but I think Shane and Jungshik had some concerns
            13. SC: I reread internal Google emails between the Intl team and the Docs team, and they are using the v8BreakIterator for word breaks, for find and replace, but not using it for line breaks. I did find something from 2012 where they were using line breaks, but I could not find it in the current code. So, "Google Docs needs this" is maybe not valid anymore.
            14. FT: It's more, they *could* use this
            15. NC: They also can use a better line segmentation approach from other sources--server-based.
            16. SC: Does Ben have an opinion about moving line break from EcmaScript to CSS?
            17. BM: I don't have a strong opinion.
            18. FT: Okay, I'm okay with this compromise.
        3. Categories
            1. DE: ???
            2. MD: Those categories are based on something that somebody needed at some time.  It would be hard for me to pierce together exactly why.  It certainly does not want to be a fixed-for-all-time set.  You may want to extend it over time.
    5. [Intl.NumberFormat Unified Feature Proposal](https://github.com/sffc/proposal-unified-intl-numberformat)
        1. ICU EcmaScript API, [ICU-20349](https://unicode-org.atlassian.net/browse/ICU-20349): would this be useful?
            1. We need feedback from other browsers, who aren't here.
            2. SC: This contains the ECMAScript standard version, so we don't get ourselves stuck in case we need to make changes later?
            3. NC: Would ICU accept that?
            4. SC: It's fine, we're all standards here.
            5. FT: We need to implement things in the proposal stage, at Stage 3--ICU might need to wait for the standard, leading to a deadlock.
            6. SC: OK, the name isn't good--we don't need to go in lockstep with the ECMA version. ICU could implement features and mark them as 'draft'.
            7. NC: We can use draft for anything that's not Stage 4
            8. FT: We would have a 6-month waiting period to use this sort of thing from ICU; we don't want to do this for initial feature implementations. It could be done for later optimizations, but not initial implementations.
            9. SC: I've been arguing that ICU should go to rolling releases, with different channels, and what Frank just said would make sense, but that's a separate discussion.
        2. -0 behavior for sign selection: [issue 23](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-unified-intl-numberformat/issues/23)
            1. DE: The behavior seems great; the bug was just about adding documentation.
            2. FT: I'd suggest you put the behavior on your 3x4 grid in the README, to document the current behavior. Plus, you should include the case for accounting, since it's not considered there.
            3. DE: I think we're over-thinking this and we should keep and document current behavior.
            4. FT: Can we add a table of signDisplay behaviors to the spec?
            5. DE: Yes, we can add it to a note.
3. Stage 2 proposals
    1. [formatRange/formatRangeToParts](https://github.com/fabalbon/proposal-intl-DateTimeFormat-formatRange) (Felipe)
        1. [Throw a RangeError when startDate is greater than endDate](https://github.com/fabalbon/proposal-intl-DateTimeFormat-formatRange/issues/1)
            1. FT: I think we should throw a RangeError
            2. BM: I tend to agree throwing an error sounds reasonable
            3. SC: I still stand by the opinion I put on the thread
            4. FB: I agree that it's more convenient
            5. FT: It might make it harder to extend the API in the future, if we want to add special behavior or arguments to this function
            6. FB: Could we throw an error now and update the spec later?
            7. DE: If we push this for stage 3, we should sort out this issue by stage 3.  We might be able to make this change later though.
            8. NC: It's better to go from stricter to less strict
            9. SC: S
        2. [rangeCollapse option](https://github.com/fabalbon/proposal-intl-DateTimeFormat-formatRange/issues/3)
            1. Tabled for next month (no time)
    2. [dateStyle/timeStyle](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-ecma402-datetime-style) (Stage 1)
        1. ('full', 'long', 'medium', 'short') or ('full', 'long', 'short', 'narrow')? see [issue/14](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-datetime-style/issues/14)
            1. DE will follow up offline.
            2. (after meeting) FT- [https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-datetime-style/pull/16](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-datetime-style/pull/16) 
4. Stage 1 proposals
5. Stage 0 proposals
    1. [Intl.DisplayNames](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-displaynames)
        1. Move under TC39 by creating a new project and following instruction on [Template for Proposals](https://github.com/tc39/template-for-proposals)
        2. Frank Tang will Champion
        3. Have problem to move Issues from the [old location](https://github.com/brawer/proposal-intl-displaynames).
        4. Now list under [Stage 0 of ECMA402](https://github.com/tc39/proposals/blob/master/ecma402/stage-0-proposals.md)
        5. Would like to change the API shape in [README](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-displaynames/pull/2) and [SPEC](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-displaynames/pull/4)
        6. And like to move under Stage 1
            1. NC: I discussed this with FT yesterday and there are simple ofScript() and ofRegion() but for ofLanguage() it should include the basename of the locale.
            2. FT: yea, "language code" is too small but “locale” is too big for that because “locale” could have unicode extensions and I don’t think we should support the name for something like “en-u-nu-Thai” so the current proposal only take language [“-” script] [“-” region] (“-” variant) without the extension. Just the base name of the locale.
            3. DE- but why not? I think those key are still useful.
            4. NC: There are request to open it up for other name, such as currency name, weekday names, etc
            5. FT: I think we should have a small set as good foundation for stage 1 and I will make a list of possible thing to add and prioritize it. For example, later we can add ofCurrency() or ofCalendar(). And we can discuss that in the stage 1 about where to make the cut. 
            6. DE: Someone ask for Emoji name since there are a lot of data.
            7. FT: We probably could consider that for V2, I will have hard time to convince Chrome team to bundle a long list name with all the locale into chrome. That will increase the browser download size a lot. 
            8. DE: Doesn’t Android already have those name? I see Spanish emoji name on my phone already.
            9. FT: Ok, I will dig into that. We can discuss such during Stage 1. But I am not going to GoDaddy next week. Could someone present that in TC39 for me?
            10. DE: Just make sure you put that into their agenda and you can just dial in.
            11. SG: I can present it to TC39 for FT next week, let’s sort out detail offline.

