Attendees

	Daniel Ehrenberg (DE), Nebojsa Ciric (NC), Felipe Balbontin (FB), Ben Michel (BM), Steven Loomis (SM), Andre Bargul (AB), Zibi Braniecki (ZB)

	Jack Horton (JH), Jeff Genovy (JG), Jeff Walden (JW), ...

Agenda and notes

[https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/blob/master/meetings/agenda-2018-06-15.md](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/blob/master/meetings/agenda-2018-06-15.md)

1. Questions/issues with existing advanced proposals and APIs
    1. [Improve handling of non-Gregorian calendars](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/227)
        * TODO: spec text tweaks [from Anba](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/227#issuecomment-389211876)
        * Achieved consensus in May 2018 TC39 meeting
        * Interested implementers/test authors?oneo
            * NC: Check current v8 implementation wrt non-Gregorian support.
        * JH: I have an open PR with some random fixes, and I’d put this into that. Maybe next week or two?
        * DE: Let’s merge this patch only once we have an implementation and test262 tests
        * JH: I’d need to look into how test262 tests are written. We’d probably need the frontmatter PR. Not sure if that’s merged
        * DE: Maybe just put something out for review?
    2. [Handling unknown codes for parts](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/231)
        * Consensus: Use "unknown" in these cases
        * TODO: Write spec text (untestable)
        * Sounds good
2. Stage 3 APIs
    1. Intl.Locale
        * [V8 implementation](https://chromium-review.googlesource.com/c/v8/v8/+/1014411) landed by Nebojša Ćirić (Neh-boy-sha)
            * NC: Missing some pieces, minimize/maximize, override language, region, script. Everything else in the spec is there
        * [SpiderMonkey implementation](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?format=default&id=1433303) out for review by André Bargull -- TODO check if it landed
            * AB: Feature complete, just need to upload the new patch. Some concerns with xlang subtags, and other spec issues. The RFC is a little unclear how to handle unknown xlang subjects
        * ZB: Do you have any performance concerns for this proposal, if we were to use them more heavily internally?
        * NC: In V8, we have a C++ object with 10 internal slots. We parse only once. If you keep it around, you don’t do any additional processing. Minimize/maximize, they aren’t done yet, but we expect it be done every single time, without caching. We could cache it. I don’t see a problem. Higher memory overhead compared to string.
        * SL: This is a prime candidate for caching and handling alternate profiles of use (client/server)
        * AB: Tried to make it fast. It does have higher memory overhead compared to strings. Still some room for optimization.
        * NC: I was thinking of instrumenting the locale. But it’s one of the cheaper ones, since we don’t have an ICU pointer.
        * JH: This was my plan for Chakra, not particularly optimizing it and seeing how often it’s called. Seems like new APIs aren’t worth investing in optimizing.
        * [Test262 tests](https://github.com/tc39/test262/pull/1553) complete coverage (?) by ms2ger
            * AB: Some of the tests have bugs because they were derived from my SpiderMonkey tests, but later I saw that the implementation wasn’t correct, e.g., for minimize: ICU requires you to implement minimize by first maximizing and then minimizing. I plan to file bugs in test262.
        * Review of recent decisions
            * [Refactor ResolveLocale in terms of Intl.Locale](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale/pull/36#issuecomment-389621874) -- TODO(littledan): Reuse internal datastructures only
            * [What should be the grammar to validate, e.g., calendar?](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale/pull/23#issuecomment-389355014) -- TODO(littledan): Throw on "" calendar, etc
                1. AB: ms2ger has a patch
                2. NC: note that caseFirst can be true or false
                3. AB: This would only throw from the options bag, not from the unicode extensions
                4. NC: We’re not treating "" as kill this option
                5. DE: We discussed null for this, but left it as a follow-on
                6. NC: What should happen if script/region are empty strings? We should be consistent
                7. AB: This is issue #16, where I asked about this, and the decision was to wait for a follow-on.
                8. DE: I don’t think "" should ever mean remove, maybe null could do that
                9. NC: OK, so "" will throw
                10. TODO: Update the spec to do this, if needed
            * [Option processing null edge case](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale/issues/40) -- Throw in the case of null, no change needed
            * [Throw exceptions for unapplyable options?](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale/issues/25)
                11. AB: You can’t apply the option here
                12. NC: We would need some kind of error signalling.
                13. DE: Well, reading the language later shows a different thing, but I’d be happy to throw
                14. ZB: I’d prefer throwing an exception
                15. NC: Let’s replace the whole thing
                16. AB: What if you replace the script?
                17. NC: OK, no way to handle it, throw. Silently ignoring is unhelpful. Implementation-wise, it’d be simpler to just throw, but it seems useful to replace them.
                18. ZB: Are we confident that the language replacing behavior is right? If we give it semantics now (as opposed throwing an exception), we can’t change it later.
                19. NC, SL: Yes, it makes sense
                20. JW: Should we add isGrandfathered, isPrivateUse?
                21. NC: If we don’t do that ,people will use the exception as a heuristic.
                22. JS: Do we want to support grandfathered tags at all?
                23. JW: The problem was that not all locales have non-grandfathered tags
                24. JS: ECMA-402 grandfathered tags …
                25. NC: We don’t need to add a new function right now
                26. SL: We need to support them basically but not make them prominent
                27. JS: I had to override ICU’s mapping of grandfathered tags, where ICU always remaps them, but ECMA-402 leaves them alone (this was exercised in tests)
                28. NC: I thought we were mapping everything to something
                29. JS: When possible, but i-default doesn’t map to anything
                30. DE: Seems like the current approach works?
                31. NC: The problem is mapping into random things
                32. JS: ECMA-402 refers to the IANA language tag registry. Some tags map to things (have preferred, others don’t. ICU is doing more than that.
                    1. Is there a ticket for fixing/changing ICU?
                33. DE: Could we permit implementation-defined mappings to eliminate all grandfathered tags (in practice, ICU mappings)
                34. JS: ICU has several bugs in this mapping area
                35. SL: [http://bugs.icu-project.org/trac/ticket/13650](http://bugs.icu-project.org/trac/ticket/13650) is one filed to update ICU's behavior. (probably just a bug/outdated instead of a policy difference); 
                36. JS: there are also a series of bugs filed on this issue. I have a fix for Chrome and will plan to upstream the fix to ICU.  e.g. [http://bugs.icu-project.org/trac/ticket/13720](http://bugs.icu-project.org/trac/ticket/13720) (13721, 13723, 13726 , 13719, 9562)
                37. JW: full list of grandfathered, no Prefix is ["i-default", "i-enochian", "i-mingo", "cel-gaulish", "zh-min"]
                38. DE: Conclusion: Keep IANA grandfathered tags translation, and when there is no official mapping, throw/replace as described earlier/
        * New questions raised by @anba
            * [What to do about mismatches between RFC 6067 and UTS 35?](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale/issues/43)
                39. SL: These are the same authors and should match. UTR 35 should have a note about this. He thinks the canonical form without true should be compliant to the RFC. Maybe the RFC should be made clearer.
                40. DE: What should the canonicalization procedure do?
                41. SL: Let’s follow up with Mark Davis and Yoshido. Can you file a CLDR issue on this, AB?
                42. AB: Yes
                43. SL: We could get this into a dot release
            * [Non-registered subtags as a result of Intl.Locale.prototype.maximize](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale/issues/41)
                44. DE: OK, sounds like we should just close this from aphillips’ response?
                45. SL: Would some people not want to include these? Should we include a way to test for private use?
                46. NC: Why would we care about filtering this out? This may be a long-standing political issue.
                47. SL: This is implementation data. This could be internally consistent, and make sense to pass back into the system.
                48. AB: I don’t have a strong opinion here, was  just wondering.
                49. DE: Conclusion: Just close the issue, no changes needed
            * [Error behavior on Intl.Locale.prototype.maximize](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale/issues/42)
                50. NC: If ICU got fixed and we returned an error, what do we want?
                51. SL: ICU probably would be, just for compatibility, returning a warning code.
                52. JS: Then users can act on that, but what should be their action?
                53. DE: I dunno, ICU behavior makes sense to me.
                54. AB: Could be annoying to have to wrap in a try/catch
                55. DE: OK, it sounds like we should make a spec patch to hook into the error path and return the original locale.
                56. AB, NC: It would be easier to create a new locale and not return the same instance.
                57. DE: OK, I don’t think anyone will care, let’s do that.
                58. SL: Yeah, returning an error doesn’t seem so useful.
        * Stage 4 in July?
            * ZB: Ready for this?
            * DE: Seems like we still have some open spec questions
            * AB: Also we should get developer experience in nightly
            * ZB: Once this lands in firefox, I’ll make this be used internally.
            * NC: So next in September?
            * ZB: Is that OK?
            * NC: Yeah, let’s just stop extending the spec for v1, and add things in v2.
    2. Intl.RelativeTimeFormat
        * [Parts should be the internal NumberFormat parts](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-relative-time/pull/70) -- resolved to include internal parts
        * [Implemented in Firefox](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?format=default&id=1270140)
        * [Intl.RelativeTimeFormat.prototype.formatToParts API approved](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1YheKc9OHt4AegzB0NeaHo5wTzpS4ia2irqXQSYXSUm0/edit#heading=h.jr7nec16y88w)
            * Does anyone want to implement?
        * No tests, no other implementations
        * FB: This is our plan for our next V8 project, looking for a developer
        * NC: Q3
3. Newer proposals
    1. [NumberFormat options](https://github.com/sffc/proposal-unified-intl-numberformat), including (a) restructuring the spec, (b) minor changes to behavior, (c) support for measure units, and (d) support for scientific and compact notation.
        * [Spec changes (in progress)](https://github.com/sffc/proposal-unified-intl-numberformat/compare/e0ee374...sffc:master)
        * Currency long names error: #238
        * Awkward rounding behavior: #239
        * Portuguese currency: #241
            * AB: These look like genuine spec errors
        * FYI: API surface questions resolved last meeting
            * [Measure unit syntax](https://github.com/sffc/proposal-unified-intl-numberformat/issues/3)
            * [Compact and Scientific Notation Syntax](https://github.com/sffc/proposal-unified-intl-numberformat/issues/5)
            * [Sign Display Syntax](https://github.com/sffc/proposal-unified-intl-numberformat/issues/6)
        * FYI: Planning for Stage 2 in July
            * NC: If people can review the spec draft, that would be great.
    2. [formatRange/formatRangeToParts](https://github.com/fabalbon/proposal-intl-DateTimeFormat-formatRange) (Felipe)
        * [slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/e/2PACX-1vQXuKpkf-kHF4Ue-35PAez79EL2bTU-s3dGbQvj0zwOzbqnF1zJJif_RT8wV9v8VkI4agEzvBPbKOoi/pub)
        * Fell off the agenda at the May 2018 TC39 meeting
        * Plan: Stage 2 at July 2018 TC39 meeting (presented by Felipe Balbontín)
        * FB: The plan is to present it at the July meeting for Stage 2. Right now, working on a draft for the spec, which I’ll add to the repo and circulate for comments. Aside from that, I need to prepare a proposal to ICU for formatToParts support, FieldPositionIterator for this API.
    3. [BigInt.prototype.toLocaleString](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/218#issuecomment-370789166); [PR](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/236)
        * Got consensus in the May 2018 TC39 meeting; "at Stage 3" together with BigInt
        * Interest in implementing, writing tests?
        * NC: We should do this as Q3
        * JW: This needs to be implemented before we ship BigInt
    4. [DisplayNames](https://github.com/brawer/proposal-intl-displaynames)
        * [API shape issue](https://github.com/brawer/proposal-intl-displaynames/issues/4)
        * [Other issues](https://github.com/brawer/proposal-intl-displaynames/issues)
        * Plan for TC39 stages? Present to TC39 in July?
        * NC: From the Zurich office, one of the big data pieces in ICU is display names, and it’d be useful to share these to the client.
        * JS: This is a big data source in Closure, long-standing issue
        * NC: It’d be great to expose it. From comments on the threads, we’re discussing API shape, we need locale resolution, it’s between a constructor and a bunch of functions on Intl. Not sure how much this is pollution.
        * JS: This will grow, e.g., script names, currency names, timezone names (?).
        * FB: There are options you can pass.
        * NC: Clearly, we need options. Generally, the feeling is either a new constructor or standalone functions.
        * DE: When should we make this decision?
        * NC: We should have guidance for the first draft, though not super-critical. Should we do this proposal?
        * DE: ZB has emphasized the utility of this
        * JH: We are a bit far off of this; I’m looking at infrastructure. It seems reasonable, and we’re basing off the same libraries, so it should be similarly feasible. I just haven’t examined it in detail.
        * Jeff Genovy: How should we handle testing when there are geopolitical issues around getting different results over time?
        * SL: This applies generally, but especially for display names. Maybe we want a general loader that takes the thing to load in the options bag, rather than a method name. We want to support variants (e.g., official)
        * NC: Requires options, and if we do the constructor, we shift things around.
        * DE: What do people think about the two options?
        * NC: If we need resolvedOptions, we need a constructor.
        * JS: ZB’s 3-yr old issue for[ Intl.DisplayName](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/31)  (3rd option in DE’s bug) 
        * SL: Is there already a locale name formatter?
        * DE: I don’t think that exists yet.
        * DE: Does anyone have concerns with the Intl.DisplayName constructor-based approach/
        * JW: If you have different levels of quality for different regions, you may get variance, e.g., the region has less data than the language. Fall back piecemeal, or refuse to make the more specific one?
        * NC: I was concerned about this too
        * SL: This can happen
        * JW: You’d want them to be consistent
        * NC: You wouldn’t want to see a mismatch of different languages. Our usual thing is best effort, hope for the best. Finding the lowest common denominator of three options isn’t the best.
        * SL: Up to the implementation about whether the locale is included. If someone is trying to bring up a locale, fully fleshed out data shouldn’t be required. Sad if locales are rejected by JS for being incomplete. Data quality issue for implementations to handle.
        * NC, JS: If an implementation doesn’t want to carry this load, it’d be easier to carve out just this part, and for web developers to feature-test for it.
        * SL: You could just support very little data, but the whole API
        * NC: For Dart, we are looking into not having no-ICU ever, just having a small meaningful polyfill (you can do better than bytes for collation by default)
        * Conclusion:
            * Constructor-based approach
            * This gives resolvedOptions
            * Namespaced so it doesn’t proliferate too much
4. ECMA-402 management
    1. Candidates for editor while Caridy is on leave?
        * Dan is editor, by acclamation
    2. Does anyone want to help with meeting agendas, organization, etc?
    3. Should we post the meeting invitation publicly?
        * JW: We may get people joining serendipitously.
        * Ben: Even if we post the links publicly, we don’t really get any extra noise
        * SL: We can try it, and promote it at the Unicode conference
        * DE: Great, I think it’d be great if we got more application developers in the group, like Ben
        * Ben: It’d be great to open up to our localization groups
        * Conclusion: Open up the meetings, but also forward people to CLDR when appropriate, as many people will have data issues
5. Future meetings
    1. Any topics to discuss at the next meeting?
        * JS: Timezone offset change, taking into account historical timezone changes. This shipped in 67. There have been a dozen bugs filed, where people used year 1800, where the time was LMT, and were caught by surprise. Probably the same will happen to other implementations too. Chrome is not making any changes; this fixes a real problem. Are other browsers planning on implementing this change? Moscow and Minsk are pretty important current examples.
        * JH: We had an internal test for this behavior that broke when I switched to ICU, for testing for 1850. I saw that behavior, and I got that the ICU behavior is pedantically correct, but we don’t use ICU for parsing dates, we still have our own custom date parser.
        * JS: Given the choice between breaking Europe/Moscow, Europe/Minsk, there are quite a few timezones which changed their offsets over the last 10 years, and maintaining the inaccurate expectation of those others…
        * JH: We get around this by not parsing the timezone in the date constructor.
        * JS: It’s not about parsing. If your local timezone is America/New_York, in the year 0, and you expect it to be -5, but it’s -4:57
        * JH: Our thought is, if it’s breaking websites, that’s not great, but it’s technically more correct… If you’re not expecting the timezones to drift… I’m not particularly in favor of either strategy, as both seem to have benefits. Whatever we decide to do should be done by everyone so sites aren’t breaking in just one browser.
        * JS: This isn’t ICU behavior, it’s following IANA TZ database to the letter, which includes the LMT details
        * JG: I don’t know whether the Windows APIs support this. Also, sometimes there are specific overrides for the timezone database. If there’s an expectation that the IANA TZ database on the platform is the exact same everywhere, that’s false. Also worth noting is that the time zone selected by the user (the Windows timezone) might map to a different IANA timezone over time. The mapping is not necessarily fixed. (It can change over time).
        * JS: Since we have many legacy tests, it may be some time until we can get through the compat issues and introduce the behavior that Chrome has.
    2. Is [July 19, 2018 at 16:00 UTC](https://time.is/1600_19_Jul_2018_in_UTC?ecma402) a good next meeting time?
        * Yes, works

#### **Overflow**

If we somehow have additional time, additional features to discuss (most likely to overflow into the next meeting)

1. New proposals
    1. Additional Locale features
        1. [Intl.getParentLocales](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/87)
        2. [Directionality of scripts](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/205)
        3. [First day of the week](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/6)
    2. HTML proposals
        1. [navigator.locale](https://github.com/whatwg/html/pull/3046)
        2. [timezonechange](https://github.com/whatwg/html/pull/3047)
    3. [API for reading Unicode properties](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/90)
    4. Additional options
        1. [dateStyle/timeStyle](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-ecma402-datetime-style) (Stage 1)
        2. [Need "symbo-alt-narrow" for Int.NumberFormat options.currencyDisplay](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/200)
        3. [DateTimeFormat: add 'skeleton' support](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/189)
        4. [DateTimeFormat: add support options.raw (aka pattern)](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/190)
        5. [DateTimeFormat: consider adding more timezone display options](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/119)
        6. [[Proposal] Compact Decimal Format to abbreviate large numbers](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/37)
        7. [Expose ability to produce a base form of the word used by Collator](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/44)
    5. [case fold](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/99), title case
        1. Steven: CLDR Transform(Translit)? [https://github.com/longnow/node-icu-transliterator](https://github.com/longnow/node-icu-transliterator) is a new implementation in node (icu binding)
    6. [Hyphenation](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/93)
    7. [What should we do about the specification's implementation-dependent behavior?](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/113)
