# October 8, 2020 Meeting

Attendees:

- Eemeli Aro - OpenJSF (EAO)
- Felipe Balbontin - Google i18n (FBN)
- Zibi Braniecki - Mozilla (ZB)
- Shane Carr - Google i18n (SFC), Co-Moderator
- Philip Chimento - Igalia (PFC)
- Richard Gibson - OpenJS Foundation (RGN)
- Justin Grant - Invited Expert for Temporal (JGT)
- Ujjwal Sharma - Igalia (USA), Co-Moderator
- Jeff Walden - SpiderMonkey/Mozilla (JSW)

Standing items:
- [Discussion Board](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/projects/2)
- [Status Wiki](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/wiki/Proposal-and-PR-Progress-Tracking) -- please update!
- [Abbreviations](https://github.com/tc39/notes/blob/master/delegates.txt)
- [MDN Tracking](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402-mdn)
- [Meeting Calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=unicode.org_nubvqveeeol570uuu7kri513vc%40group.calendar.google.com)

## Discussion Topics

### Unicode Conference

SFC: See the slides: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1nEnkIu4BpS9S-_K4WR-glfgB9sbjWEP9DeUXuKnrkkQ/edit.  USA and I recorded a video that will be played at the conference followed by a Q&A.

### DateTimeFormat.prototype.resolveOptions may show fewer resolved options than present in formatted range #22

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-DateTimeFormat-formatRange/issues/22

FBN: I'd like to discuss my comment from Aug 11.  There are two issues listed there:

1. Should the resolved options contain the additional date-time fields used when formatting a date range?
2. There is no way for the user to determine upfront which fields are going to be displayed in the formatted string.

SFC: I think the main purpose of resolvedOptions is to roundtrip.  It might not give complete information.

JSW: I'm not sure we have a cohesive vision of resolvedOptions, but roundtripping sounds like the thing we should shoot for.  If you want to get the options for a specific formatted string, that should be an extra API.

SFC: We could add it as another field to the object returned by formatToParts.

FBN: I will create a follow-up issue in the 402 repo to gather feedback.

SFC: On the second issue, I think we should stick with current behavior. We are formatting a range between JavaScript Dates, which are timestamps. If we want to drop fields, we can format a range of Temporal.Times.  We can figure out the semantics for this in the Temporal proposal.

### About interop with dateStyle/timeStyle #19

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-DateTimeFormat-formatRange/issues/19

FBN: I think the behavior is unexpected.  We should not allow it.

SFC: We should either update the spec to allow it, or add Test262 to assert the behavior and mark implementations as non-conformant.

ZB: I'm concerned when we are unnecessarily strict with output.  One option is that we should only require that the strings are human-readable; further restrictions on that output is outside the scope of 402.  Alternatively, if we feel that the desired behavior in issue 19, we should make sure the spec says so: formatRange should call format if the dates are the same.

FBN: That's what the spec does already, but it's tricky on the ICU side.

FYT: I don't think what ZB said is enough.  If two dates are exactly the same, you can call format().  But if the DateTimeFormat is set up to format a range of hours, in the implementation, you can't check ahead of time that the two dates are the same, because the minutes and seconds are dropped.

SFC: What is the current spec behavior exactly?

FBN: It checks for date equality after the fields are computed.

SFC: I think we should keep the spec the same then, and just make Test262 to assert the behavior.

ZB: Sounds good


### Review List of Open PRs

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/wiki/Proposal-and-PR-Progress-Tracking

ZB: It's okay that we don't have these implemented.  We will catch up.

FYT: Do we have consensus on #471?

(several thumbs-up and no objections)

FYT: How about #459?

(several thumbs-up and no objections)

FYT: How about #347?

(several thumbs-up and no objections)

### Support new fractionalSecondDigits option #28

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-DateTimeFormat-formatRange/issues/28

FBN: Given the conclusion above, I will do the spec update.

### MDN

FYT: We should have instructions for proposal champions to do the MDN work themselves.

SFC: RCA has largely done this work. We have https://github.com/tc39/ecma402-mdn to track. I'll follow up offline.

### Next steps for Stage 4 proposal PRs

RGN: I will review them and push the button when I'm able.

### What grouping strategies to include? #3

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-numberformat-v3/issues/3

JSW: Some prior art is hour12 versus hourCycle.

JGT: Having an option take either a boolean or a string is weird.

ZB: We went with something else on hour12 because the name clearly didn't allow other options.  The difference here is that useGrouping is not a very bad name.  You can squint and say `useGrouping: "min2"` is a perfectly valid API.  I don't know how often duck typing is used in similar APIs; is there prior art?

JSW: I don't have a strong opinion on which approach to take.

EAO: I like SFC's approach.  Do we support ICU ON_ALIGNED?

SFC: Yes; it's called "always".

EAO: I find it nice for non-strings to map to strings in documentation.

SFC: How about false?

EAO: If false needs to be false for backwards compatibility, that's okay.

JSW: If false has to be the odd one out (that is, the only one with no string equivalent like “never”), so be it.

EAO: Can we just return the same value that the user provided?

FYT: Internally, there are only 4 values stored internally. So resolvedOptions should reflect the internal resolved option.

SFC: Is everyone okay with returning false and the three strings?

(consensus)

JGT: Is this a pattern that we would want to duplicate somewhere else?

JSW: I think we would probably use all strings if designing this from scratch.

FYT: +1

SFC: I think it's a nice pattern to use in general.  Making the absence of something indicated by a falsy value, and the presence indicated by a truthy value, feels JavaScripty to me.

JGT: I think it's weird that `undefined` does not mean `false`.

RGN: I don't think we should commit to a position that this generalizes out of ECMA-402.  It might work, but doing it in 402 is at most weak evidence that it should be done in 262.

### Range with NaN, Infinity #12

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-numberformat-v3/issues/12

JSW: I think it's perfectly reasonable for infinity to participate in ranges.  As far as "5+" or "≥5", that should be its own option; it shouldn't be conflated with formatRange.

FYT: I think ranges with infinities could be seen in mathematical formulas.  So I don't think there's a reason we should disallow it.

### Add PluralRules selectRange #16

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-numberformat-v3/issues/16

EAO: Definitely yes.

JSW: The data is in CLDR; see https://unicode.org/reports/tr35/tr35-numbers.html#Plural_Ranges

USA: +1

### Range with negative values #11

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-numberformat-v3/issues/11

SFC: I think formatRange should throw a RangeError upon encountering a negative value.

RGN: I would find that very surprising.

JSW: What about temperatures?

RGN: And uncertainty ranges, e.g. ±1 meter

JSW: This is undefined in CLDR: https://unicode.org/reports/tr35/tr35-numbers.html#Plural_Ranges

FYT: If this is undefined in CLDR, then we should push for it to be fixed. Negative numbers should be supported.

RGN: Because it is backwards-compatible to relax errors, we _could_ ship with a RangeError and fix it later—not that doing so is necessarily the best strategy

EAO: CLDR doesn't specify plural forms for single negative numbers either.  So it would be no worse with negative plural ranges.

FYT: You believe that currently, a negative range will be formatted correctly but selectPlural output may not be correct?

SFC: Formatting ranges with negative numbers is not currently well-specified, but ICU behavior is pretty much as expected.

SFC: Data from translators tends to use only positive numbers, and the spec implicitly assumes that. There’s an open ticket on CLDR to improve the specification, currently assigned to me. But I think ICU behavior is good enough to move forward with.

EAO: And we’re already doing that exact thing with PluralRules.
### signDisplay with formatRange #13

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-numberformat-v3/issues/13

SFC: Given the decision on #11, I think my preference switches to option 1 (always obey `signDisplay`)

FYT: What would it look like when formatting e.g. -50 to -20?

SFC: The same as without `signDisplay`.

EAO: I would expect `-50 – -20`.

EAO: If one has a sign, I would expect both to have a sign.

SFC: I’ll come back next time with a new design.

### DateTimeFormat: consider adding more timezone display options #119

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/119

SFC: Blocked on #442

### Normative: Better defaults for hourCycle #436

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/436

FYT: This is marked draft, which is appropriate. It cannot be merged right now.

SFC: Does someone want to champion this? If not, we can close it now.

ZB: Is there an associated issue?

SFC: #402

ZB: Then let’s close the PR and keep the issue open.

SFC: Ok. #402 in the ES2021 milestone.

### Normative: Use OrdinaryHasInstance in normative optional steps #500

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/500

FYT: I don't know whether this change is warranted or not.

JSW: It makes sense to me.  Also, ABL was doing similar work in this area.

SFC: Let’s discuss more next month, and try to get the author to join us.

### API surface and scope guidelines #442

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/442

ZB: (discusses issue)

SFC: Additions need a clear and compelling use case with stakeholders, a solution (ECMA-402 doesn’t invent i18n, it just exposes it), and be difficult to implement in userland.

ZB: Is it enough if there are multiple stakeholders? Backtracking on API design decisions can be extremely painful—cf. `hour12` and `useGrouping`.

FYT: Other organizations encounter similar problems, e.g. C++20 includes STL additions and the Unicode Consortium considers new encodings. Can we borrow strategy from elsewhere?

SFC: Unicode is decided by stakeholder demand for e.g. new measurement units in CLDR. Companies request a feature and provide the resources to implement it.

ZB: I agree with FYT that we should look at what other standards groups do.  Maybe WebAssembly, DOM, WebAudio, WebGL, HTML, etc.

SFC: TC39 is also largely stakeholder-based.  Someone proposes a feature, and the feature gets adopted as long as no-one (e.g. implementers) object to it.

ZB: Is there an example from other groups where some APIs carry (large) payloads?

FYT: I agree about payload.

SFC: Who wants to do this research and report back here?

SFC: I don’t think we should adopt any new features before answering this question. I’m assigning to USA.
