Attendees: Zibi Braniecki (ZB), Ms2ger (MS), Shane Carr (SC), Jeff Walden (JW), Frank Tang (FT), Jack Horton (JH), Nebojsa Ciric (NC), Jeff Genovy (JG), Myles C. Maxfield (MM), Daniel Ehrenberg (DE), Richard Gibson (RG), Rafael Xavier (RX), Jungshik Shin (JS), Felipe Balbontin (FB)

Notes:

1. Bugs/PRs against ECMA-402
    1. Should locales be general BCP47, or[ Unicode BCP47 Locale Identifiers](https://www.unicode.org/reports/tr35/proposed.html#BCP_47_Conformance)? ([issue](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale/issues/63)). Implications:
        1. After canonicalizing, no support for grandfathered tags; private use is always as an extension
        2. Adopt CLDR semantics for some things on top of IANA
        3. Still ban _
        4. DE: This seems nice, to simplify and align the browsers, right?
        5. NC: For ICU, this should be aligning to it, and that's good
        6. MM: We aren't using BCP47, but we recognize that as a mistake, and would like to use BCP47
        7. JW: We have our own canonicalization in SpiderMonkey. We don't really have a problem with the existing thing, but would be up for using it.
        8. ZB: I haven't encountered a case where the grandfathered tags were actually used in the wild. I'd be happy if we aligned ourselves with Unicode, and I don't expect it to break anything in the wild
        9. JH: I have yet to find a case where the grandfathered tags are used for anything.
        10. NC: Once you canonicalize like that, you can then override more easily
        11. JH: Yeah, some of those Intl.Locale algorithms were pretty brutal with their special-case handling of grandfathered tags
        12. NC: We have a discussion about - and _. I talked to Markus in ICU, and he was saying, we could be permissive in input, but then restrict them in canonicalized form
        13. JW: I feel like adding an additional separator doesn't help much. People could do search and replace if they want to support _
        14. ZB: I agree
        15. DE: OK, sounds like we have consensus in this group to adopt Unicode BCP47 locale identifiers
    2. [Normative: Improve handling of non-Gregorian calendars](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/227)
        1. Has anyone implemented relatedYear? If so, let's land this patch; if not, split out calendar schema aspect and land separately.
        2. DE: Has anyone implemented relatedYear?
        3. JH: I have it implemented somewhere, it's a small patch, it should be quick to fix up.
        4. DE: Should we split it up into two changes, or is it OK to leave as one?
        5. JH: OK to leave as one.
    3. [Normative: Don't harden supportedLocalesOf Array](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/278)
        1. Seem like a good idea?
        2. JH: I was confused about that too. It would help new implementers, at least.
        3. ZB: I have no concern about that.
        4. DE: Consensus about making this change?
        5. SC: I'm still reviewing
        6. FT: What's the motivation for this change? Why was it like that in the first place?
        7. DE: There was an idea that it would be a LocaleList, and this was done for forward-compatibility, but at this point it's a weird wart. 
        8. SC: If we're confident that we're not going down the LocaleList path, then this seems good.  What was the original motivation between LocaleList?
        9. MM: What is the difference between "a locale list" and “a list of locales”?
        10. NC: I think it was for security, so people can't override it. But I'm not sure how important that is.
        11. SC: Possible perf impact?
        12. DE: This could only make things faster
        13. NC: This would be removing code
        14. JH: More time was spent on optimizing ordinary arrays
        15. DE: OK, so we have consensus on this change
    4. [Normative: Specify order of table traversal](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/279)
        1. Clarification suggested by Sathya Gunasekaran, but really it's a normative change
        2. JH: Is there a user visible change from this?
        3. DE: Yes, through Object.getOwnPropertyNames
        4. FT: I raised this question, since it's ambiguous whether it goes top down. I think we should clarify whether it's in any order, or top-down order. From my point of view, it's implied top-down.
        5. JH: Does any implementation not do top-down?
        6. NC: NumberFormatter/DateFormatter might.
        7. MS: I wrote tests for this change, and some of them had failures in some browsers
        8. DE: OK, consensus? Yes. Thanks for raising the issue, Frank.
2. Stage 3 APIs
    1. [Intl.Locale](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale)
        1. Issues
            1. Sorry for letting the issues pile up a bit here!
            2. [Using Unicode locale ID vs BCP 47 in our spec](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale/issues/63), presumably covered above; implications for other issues and PRs:
                1. [Incorrect double validation for language tag in ApplyOptionsToTag](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale/issues/52)
                2. [Changes for InsertUnicodeExtension](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale/pull/62)
                3. [Fix two issues with grandfathered tags](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale/pull/57)
                4. DE: Let's handle these offline; they sort of go away with Unicode BCP 47 Locale IDs
            3. Easy fix:[ Normative: Fix type check in CanonicalizeLocaleList](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale/pull/64)
                1. JH: I'm good with this
        2. DE: A pile of issues grew, but most of them seem like they’ll go away if we adopt the Unicode BCP47 rather than the general BCP47. I’ll review that offline.
        3. NC: Need to drop off for another meeting.
        4. ZB: Can we get a tally on which implementers are close with Intl.Locale support?
        5. JH: Is there a SpiderMonkey(?) implementation?
        6. ZB: No, it hasn't landed yet; I was waiting for decisions on all the issues
        7. DE: Is there a word on this feature from WebKit?
        8. MM: No word.
    2. [Intl.RelativeTimeFormat](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-relative-time)
        1. Great to see ICU stuff coming, thanks Frank!
        2. FT: Shane and I are still discussing how to make it work. In V8, we implemented this through a workaround, not the ICU API. Basically, I get the underneath numberformatter, format it, and then search for it the result. V8 is implementing it with a hack. It'll probably work most of the time, but it's not really properly. The real ICU change, we'll still discuss that; we've gone through one round in the ICU TC. The implementation shouldn't be hard, as long as we 
        3. SC: The issue from when Daniel originally made the proposal was handling the sub-fields. In C and C++, it's taking some more time to design it since fields that are bubbled up from NumberFormat make it hard to determine the field category. The idea so far was that the NumberFormat fields came from NF's enum, and DateFormat fields come from DF's enum. But with RelativeTimeFormat, that doesn't work anymore. We're trying to design a better way to distinguish field categories. I have a design doc, and Frank has a design doc, and that's what we're working on.
        4. DE: Sounds great, glad to hear it's being done right.
        5. SC: I'd recommend following the icu-design mailing list to stay up-to-date.
            1. [https://sourceforge.net/projects/icu/lists/icu-design](https://sourceforge.net/projects/icu/lists/icu-design)
        6. Shane's design doc (not ready yet): [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1O50nC0M4aNGRbPlQG0e2AqJa6jlf8n5QixXGD8O2sjw/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1O50nC0M4aNGRbPlQG0e2AqJa6jlf8n5QixXGD8O2sjw/edit)
            1. SC: Not ready for comments yet. Subscribe to the ‘icu-design’ mailing list for more info and/or to participate in the discussion.
    3. [Intl.ListFormat](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-list-format)
        1. Any issues?
        2. SC: Frank is working on a similar proposal for ListFormat for C and Java.
        3. FT: There's already an FPI implementation in C++, so you can already implement formatToParts. And that's going to be included in ICU 63.
        4. DE: It would be great to have a C API, as many browsers prefer to use C APIs, or can’t call C++ APIs at all.
    4. [Intl.Segmenter](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-segmenter)
        1. Great to see Frank's work here in V8!
        2. [Normative: Include position in segment object](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-segmenter/pull/42)
            1. DE: aligns Intl.Segmenter with new String.prototype.codePoints API, allowing you to get 
            2. FT: I think that's a good idea.
            3. code point positions.
            4. FT: I think it's a good idea.
            5. MM: So the idea is that it's supposed to implement one of them on top of the other one?
            6. FT: No, this is to make code point indices stored inside the object returned by next(), so you don't need to call the iterator again to get that value.  I think according to daniel, the motivation is to align this API to the other API.  The implementation is trivial.
            7. MM: Sounds fine to me.
            8. SC: Should position instead be called index?
            9. DE: SGTM
            10. SC: Is there anything that has a code unit output?
            11. DE: All of JavaScript is based on code units. Position is a code unit offset.
            12. FT: There are two proposals, for iterating through code points, and for se
            13. Conclusion: Continue the discussion by email, including Dan, Miles, Shane, and Richard
        3. [Should "breakType" rename to "segmentType"](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-segmenter/issues/44)
            1. FT: I want to rephrase this question.  What happened is that two days ago we had an internal design meeting, and my colleagues asked, why are we calling it Segmenter?  It turns out that in the spec, sometimes we call it Break, and sometimes we call it Segmenter.  So it's okay that we stay with the name Segmenter, but we should look at the spec and make sure that we use a consistent term across the spec.
            2. JH: I assume that the Break terminology came from the V8 BreakIterator
            3. DE: I named this.  I was thinking that the "segment" is the word, and "break" is the thing between the words.  So that's why I named this "breakType", to make it more descriptive.
            4. DE: Yeah, this proposal was developed in the period before we had regular ECMA 402 meetings.
            5. JH: I think "segmentType" makes sense.
            6. FT: Let's say we're breaking a word into three tokens.  If breakType is indicating the space between the word, then the word "break" is fine.  But I'm a bit confused myself exactly what this is referring to.
            7. DE: Well, the thing that's most clear is the soft or hard line breaks, where we're actually talking about line breaks.  I'm not sure what goes into word breaks.  But soft versus hard line breaks are more clear.
            8. FT: We sometimes refer to previous and next (preceding and following).  The breakType is stored in the iterator, not in the return value from preceding and following.
            9. DE: The property is accessible in two ways.  The breakType getter, and in the return value when you call the .next() function.
            10. Conclusion: Come back to this later
3. Stage 2 proposals 2.
    1. [Intl.NumberFormat Unified Feature Proposal](https://github.com/sffc/proposal-unified-intl-numberformat)
        1. What's needed to prepare for Stage 3 in November?
        2. [Issue #19](https://github.com/sffc/proposal-unified-intl-numberformat/issues/19)
        3. SC: ICU has some support for custom compound units, e.g., "fathoms per second". Popular compound units are in CLDR already, as their own things, but you might want to have your own. One missing thing is, e.g., megabytes per second, which is likely useful for the web platform. The other issue is that there's only a numerator and denominator. You can't have meters times amperes over seconds times something else, just one unit in the top and one unit in the bottom. I'm sort of torn about whether we want to support custom compound units. We could say, we will support whatever units are in the CLDR spec. You get your meters per second, miles per hour, etc, but you don't get fathoms per second. The other extreme would be that we permit everything. And the third would be that we curate our own list, including custom ones like mbps. If we allow arbitrary units, it opens up an API design discussion. The first question is, to what extent we want to support custom compound units.
        4. DE: Isn't it unfortunate to omit, e.g., Mbps data-wise?
        5. Full list of units: [https://unicode.org/repos/cldr/tags/latest/common/validity/unit.xml](https://unicode.org/repos/cldr/tags/latest/common/validity/unit.xml)
        6. RX: My main goal there is to simplify the API we have now. CLDR has a unit identifier where we have basically the type of the unit - <something>. The unit itself is already unique. That's the main disagreement I have. We can do that. I don't think it's a concern that we make some very complex and crazy compound unit; what I'm concerned about is included. Data will change over time. We shouldn't distinguish between custom and non-custom compound units. Data is data, and our algorithms should handle the details.
        7. SC: This is the data that CLDR has. The compound units that CLDR specifies has specific data, and CLDR has curated them. That's the difference between the special compound unit and the custom ones. The curated ones are the ones most likely in high demand, since CLDR curates data on request. Apparently, nobody asked for Mbps (in a compelling-enough way). If we want it in CLDR, we should open a CLDR ticket and have them curate the data for it.
        8. RX: I'm not sure I completely agree there. Although CLDR doesn't include the compound unit explicitly, the algorithm is pretty clear about how it should generate that from existing data. Although there's no explicit compound units there, the units are there and the algorithm is clear. I think it's not there not because it's not useful, but because it doesn't need to be there.
        9. SC: A counterexample for that is Mbps, which the algorithm would return Mb/s for English, which is not correct.
        10. RX: Until we add it to CLDR!
        11. SC: So, if we want to make a list of units that's useful, we could make a specially curated list, and hope to get CLDR data over time.
        12. RX: So, why not just allow arbitrary compound units then?
        13. MM: The concern I have is that CLDR could change things in some way we didn't forsee. It would be shortsighted to do something here given the longevity of JavaScript. If the goal is to have an implementation before CLDR can get its act together, I think it'd be better to approach CLDR first.
        14. RX: CLDR already specifies a fallback mechanism; we'd just be using it
        15. SC: If we wanted to allow arbitrary units, it opens up the can of worms about how we want to design the API.
        16. DE: If we include this xyz-per-abc, is that in CLDR, or is this an innovation that we do?
        17. SC: That would be an innovation that we do. Probably the safer thing would be, to go to CLDR and ask for the names of particular units to be "reserved". There's no mechanism in the CLDR spec for custom unit names. It's just the ones CLDR has data for.
        18. DE: I think we should start out being more conservative.
        19. RX: So the approach is, start with a short list of units, and then make a new version of CLDR when a new one is added?
        20. DE: Yes, similar to what we do currently for other things
        21. RX: But for currencies, we don't need to make a new version of the spec!
        22. SC: There's an issue of, what to do with an unknown units. The consensus was to enumerate the list of 140 units that are supported, and throw an exception on unsupported units. Over time, the spec gets updated to support other units. We could revisit that, but an issue is, with currencies, there's a clear fallback (just the three-letter currency code), whereas with units, the unit identifier isn't suitable for display.
        23. RX: OK, thank you
        24. DE: Conclusion? Do we want to enumerate this custom set?
        25. SC: My intuition is to be conservative, and stick with CLDR. We should go to CLDR ASAP and say, megabytes per second is important for JavaScript, and just go through this process. If we do this, they are likely to add data. I'm thinking we shouldn't give our own custom list, since there's no specification for how you give a custom unit identifier.
        26. RX: I respect the majority of opinions, but I still find this limiting. Megabytes per second was just an example. We are choosing an approach that is a restriction of what UTS 35 has; I still don't get why we need to do this. I'm still don't like the previous decision.
        27. SC: I think we can add compound units in the future. My main trepidation from adding it now is just because the API gets more complicated. Maybe we can work with CLDR to work on a spec for custom unit identifiers. I think the value of having every unit being a string is very nice.
        28. FT: In reality, no matter how we spec it, someone will have to put in the pack for the translation. "Someone" is volunteers in CLDR. If we make it open and free-form in how to customize it, someone else will have to fulfill that. Someone in various places will have to do that. The good thing about the string one is that it's well-defined. If it's open, the person will scratch their head--when will I ever be done with my task? That's one reason that the string approach is more manageable for translators.
        29. SC: We're talking about the ECMAScript spec--even if CLDR supports something, we don't have to support it in ES. I'm not very happy with the current CLDR "per" unit specification, with its limitations. I'd rather see, if we allow arbitrary combinations, to have any number of numerators and any number of denominators. Since we're designing a new specification, I'd rather not carry forward this limitation.
        30. RX: Well, I dissent, and I understand your point, about the open list.
        31. SC: For the other issues, I'll follow up offline with DE, just editing spec text. It should be ready for Stage 3 in November
    2. [formatRange/formatRangeToParts](https://github.com/fabalbon/proposal-intl-DateTimeFormat-formatRange) (Felipe)
        1. Any updates?
        2. FB: No, plan to focus on it in November/December, and go for Stage 3 in the January 2019 TC39 meeting.
4. Newer proposals
    1. [dateStyle/timeStyle](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-ecma402-datetime-style) (Stage 1)
        1. New specification revision. Propose for Stage 2 in TC39?
        2. Reflects decisions from the last meeting:
            1. Use CLDR-style schema explicitly
            2. Don't apply any settings from the OS
            3. Don't throw errors when invalid option combinations are used
        3. ZB: Does it mean that the date/time formats will take priority over the fields?
        4. FB: What is an example of an invalid combination?
        5. DE: Like what Zibi just said: where you have an hour style, but a date field, and then the date gets ignored.
        6. FT: This seems like a higher-level.  You specify the general bucket of date, hour, etc.  Currently you have to specify each hour, second, etc.  With this, you don't need to specify every field.  Is this right?
        7. DE: Right.
        8. FB: So, the only concern I have with this proposal is for date range formatting.  In ICU, the relative date time format class doesn't support dateStyle and timeStyle.  There's a workaround, but it's a bit of a hack.
        9. DE: So does this need further ICU work?  Is there adequate locale data?
        10. FB: Yes, there's locale data.  The workaround basically, by specifying date style and time style, you have to go into a skeleton first.  We don't have direct data for date and time style; you have to go through the skeleton.
        11. DE: So it has to go manually?
        12. FB: ICU provides all the pieces that are needed, but the ICU API is clunky and you need to go through several steps.
        13. FT: ICU's date interval format only takes the skeleton, so no matter what, we need to go through the skeleton.
        14. FB: Yeah.  That's why you have to convert from timeStyle and dateStyle to skeleton.
        15. FT: Yeah, so this doesn't make it any more complicated, because we already have to convert to a skeleton in the existing API.
        16. DE: So it sounds like there's no big problem, and this doesn't cause problems for formatRange?
        17. FB: Yes.
        18. DE: Does anyone have any concerns at a high level about the motivations of this proposal?
        19. FT: I want to check.  With this proposal, unnecessary fields are ignored.  Is that true?
        20. DE: Yes.
        21. ZB: The way I understand, it's not only if there's a conflict.  If you specify any of these fields, we ignore the more specific fields.  So if you specify timeStyle short, we don't look at all the fields; we don't even check if there's a conflict.  What I'm trying to say is that the vocabulary we're trying to use is, we look at the skeleton for time style, we just ignore hour, minute, second, and so on.
        22. JS: Time zone is not part of the style.
        23. FT: But hour12 and hourCycle are looked at first.  Do those still need to be looked at first?  What happens if the style conflict with hour12 and hourCycle?
        24. JS: Yeah, that's a good question.
        25. DE: It seems that CLDR doesn't have different hour cycle variants.
        26. DE: I'm not sure if we should move the hourCycle read later in the spec.  We could just ignore the result of the read.  If we don't ignore it, we should ask CLDR to add more data for it.
        27. ZB: What if the user specifies hourCycle in the locale code?  If the user request time short but wants a certain hourCycle, we should respect that.
        28. JS: hourCycle seems like a popular feature request.  It would be a problem to ignore hourCycle with time style.
        29. ZB: Well, it seems to me that hourCycle is just different.  I haven't seen many people being strict with hours or minutes or seconds.  Usually people just want the string to fit.  When I'm thinking about timeshort or timelong, I don't usually think about whether we are 12 hour or 24 hour.
        30. DE: Does ICU give an API for this?
        31. JS: I think we'd need to go down to a lower level to implement this.
        32. ZB: My understanding is that we're trying to have a shortcut like, "give me for polish, give me short time", and that should give you which kinds of tokens you want.  I ask for "time short", and you give me "hour 2 digit, minute 2 digit".
        33. DE: That makes sense, but that's not how the data is organized now.
        34. JS: With the given ICU API, what would happen is that you ask for that time style, and get the formatted result.  But if we want to override the hourCycle, then we'd need to override the low-level pattern.  I'm talking from memory so what I'm saying might not be 100% accurate.
        35. DE: I'm wondering if we should leave this as an open question for a bit.  Promote to Stage 2, and then discuss with other Unicode people whether we want to make a proper API for this.
        36. FT: So you're suggesting that we move the current proposal as-is to stage 2?  That we ignore the hourCycle for now?
        37. DE: Yeah.
        38. FT: I'm okay with that.
        39. DE: Stage 2 doesn't mean we've worked out all the details yet.  It just means we have a good first draft.
        40. JS: And in the mean time, we look into ICU/unicode support.
        41. Conclusion: Propose for Stage 2 in November
    2. [DisplayNames](https://github.com/brawer/proposal-intl-displaynames)
        1. Next steps?
        2. [API shape issue](https://github.com/brawer/proposal-intl-displaynames/issues/4)
        3. [Other issues](https://github.com/brawer/proposal-intl-displaynames/issues)
        4. DE: We should talk about this in the in-person meeting in November.  We should all research it beforehand.
        5. JS: That sounds good.  Speaking of saving, this feature will save a lot of data over the wire.  On the other hand, Chrome and Firefox on Android have this issue: to save data going over the wire, we need to store that data in our binary.  Currently, Chrome on Android is removing the display names for all regions, scripts, and language.  Why?  1, to save data, and 2, because that data is available in Java.  But in JavaScript, we can't rely on Java platform, so now we'd need to start bundling that data again.  ZB, what's your opinion on the data size increase for FF mobile?
        6. ZB: So we ship the data already.  We already ship some of the display names.
        7. DE: I don't understand; why can't you use the Java data?
        8. JS: It's the platform Java data.  Is it possible to call into the Java API from V8, for instance?
        9. DE: I mean, you can make calls to the sandbox and whatever.
        10. JS: So maybe it might be possible.  I talked to the V8 folk from San Francisco, Sathya (?), and he doesn't seem very optimistic about that.  On the one hand, I like this feature, but on the other, I'm concerned about the data size increase.
        11. FB: Is the data available in the NDK?
        12. JS: Yeah, but I'm not sure if it's in an old enough version of the NDK. Yeah, but ICU is only officially supported in the NDK very recently.
        13. DE: You could throw an exception if the data isn't available if the data isn't available.
        14. JS: Yeah, we could find some other workaround.
        15. DE: Okay, I'll get in touch with Sathya about this.  Sound good? 
    3. [navigator.ontimezonechange](https://github.com/whatwg/html/pull/3047) -- any interest?
        1. JS: I like it.  This would need to be in the web platform, not Ecma 402, right?  It sounds like this is a web platform API?
        2. DE: Yeah, so what we need for this, since it's in the WhatWG spec, we'd need to have people from two different rendering engines chime in.  It's also blocked on testing, because you'd need to make the test change time zones.
        3. JS: Yeah, we don't know how to mock the time zone.
        4. FT: Actually, an interesting thing is that when I run Test 262 in China, a lot of the tests break.
        5. JS: A lot of the tests assume that the current time zone offset is applied from 100 years ago.
        6. FT/JS: Another issue is that CEST means two different things.
        7. MM: I support this API.  I think it's a good idea.  I don't know if there's a lot of demand for this, but the general idea is a good one.
        8. FT: So Daniel, what's your recommendation?
        9. DE: So, as the next step in the WhatWG process, two people who work for different browsers should chime in on the thread.
        10. FT: So we're trying to recruit people from here to go there and chime in?
        11. DE: Yes, that's what I'm proposing.
        12. JS: So for Chrome, we already have a feature request filed, right?
        13. DE: I'm not sure where that bug is
        14. JS: I think one of us did.  I'll CC Frank and Danie.
        15. DE: Zibi or Jeff, do you have any opinions?
        16. ZB: Can you repeat the question?
        17. DE: If you like this feature, would you be interested in Firefox voicing support for this in WhatWG?
        18. JW: It seems like a reasonable thing to me.  I don't know who on our end would be looking at it.  It seems perfectly reasonable.
        19. DE: Okay, we can follow up more offline.
5. Polyfills
    1. Evolve Globalize.js into an Intl polyfill? (Rafael Xaviers)
        1. We're following up by email; anything more to discuss?
6. Future meetings
    1. Any topics to discuss at the next meeting?
    2. Meeting November 26th, 9:30-12:30, America/Los_Angeles, in Google Mountain View (which lobby to meet at?)
        1. 1310 Shorebird Way, Mountain View, CA 94043
        2. Is there still a "Meet" or “Hangout” or the meeting?
