# 2023-01-13 ECMA-402 Meeting

## Logistics

### Attendees

- Shane Carr - Google i18n (SFC), Co-Moderator
- Ben Allen - Igalia (BAN)
- Daniel Minor - Mozilla (DLM)
- Eemeli Aro - Mozilla (EAO)
- Frank Yung-Fong Tang - Google i18n, V8 (FYT)
- Leo Balter - Salesforce (LEO)
- Myles C. Maxfield - Apple (MCM)
- Richard Gibson - OpenJS Foundation (RGN)
- Romulo Cintra - Igalia (RCA), MessageFormat Working Group Liaison
- Ujjwal Sharma - Igalia (USA), Co-Moderator
- Zibi Braniecki - Amazon (ZB)

### Standing items

- [Discussion Board](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/projects/2)
- [Status Wiki](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/wiki/Proposal-and-PR-Progress-Tracking) -- please update!
- [Abbreviations](https://github.com/tc39/notes/blob/master/delegates.txt)
- [MDN Tracking](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402-mdn)
- [Meeting Calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=unicode.org_nubvqveeeol570uuu7kri513vc%40group.calendar.google.com)
- [Matrix](https://matrix.to/#/#tc39-ecma402:matrix.org)

## Status Updates

### Editor's Update

RGN: There's a big change about referencing Unicode documents, which went in a few weeks ago, so we can be more consistent with how we reference the Unicode technical reports, etc. We also landed a change to ResolveLocale, and an open PR around clarifying editorially the use of UTS #35.

In terms of normative changes we have some open proposals that are close and they are part of the today’s agenda to discuss.

USA: They’re a small editorial changes.

### MessageFormat Working Group

RCA: Addison Philips is the new chairperson of the group. I intend to continue to participate in plenary meetings.

### Proposal Status Changes

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/wiki/Proposal-and-PR-Progress-Tracking

FYT: Locale info: plan to provide an update to end of january meeting – too rushed to go to stage 4 in the coming year. To discuss today: changing getter to a method. 

SFC: Interested in getting NumberFormat to stage 4

USA: reached consensus on biggest open questions. It would be great if over the course of this meeting we could get TG2 consensus.. Fairly small, most of the PR is just the process of coming to the final design

EAO: working on some of the spec text / addressing issues that haven't been addressed, not sure when it'll be in the state to look like a stage 2 thing

FYT: another stage 1 proposal missing from table, which already advanced stage 1 in last meeting. Planning to give update in response to concern last time 

The issue was if we should do this within ECMA/TC39 or within Unicode CLDR. We went to CLDR and concluded that most of the work will move to CLDR with a thin addition to 402 including a reference to said CLDR documents.

USA: Thank you FYT and SFC

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-era-monthcode/issues

## Pull Requests

### Normative: Read date-time options only once when creating DateTimeFormat objects

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/709

SFC: several open Normative PRs. Request status on 709, last discussed Oct. 6. Review test262 impact. 

RGN: working on it right now, threading of the Intl object in test262, will have a report by EOD to 

### Normative: Updates on fractionalSecondDigits in preparation for Temporal

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/715

SFC: not actionable until we can get alignment. I'll mark it as blocked and draft.

### Normative: support fractionalSecondDigits to be 0

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/733

SFC: Same status as above.

### Correct Gregorian calendar BC(E) era to signed years less than 1 AD

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/729

SFC: This needs to go for TG1 consensus.

FYT: This looks great to me.

### Normative: Stage4 PR for proposal-intl-enumeration

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/716

SFC: 716 is actionable?

USA: yes, but I don’t think we should merge it right away 

SFC: Editors, please take a look.

### Normative: Stage 4 PR for Intl Locale Info proposal

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/717

FYT: blocked, need to be addressed

### Normative: Read date-time options only once when creating DateTimeFormat objects

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/709

SFC: need to review RGN modifications 

SFC: some older Normative requests

USA: I believe they’re blocked

## Proposals and Discussion Topics

### Naming of fractional options

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-duration-format/issues/131

USA: thinking about DurationFormat: we don’t seem to have absolute consistency with regard to naming of options in terms of fractional digits. When you think about NumberFormat two options: minimumFractionDigits and maximumFractionDigits. But DateTimeFormat uses fractionalSecondDigits.

USA: Would be nice to get confirmation from committee that we should use fractionalDigits or fractionDigits. We have two instances of fractionDigits, should we prefer fractionalDigits? fractionDigit more compact.

SFC: framework: the two cases we have are minimumFractionDigits and fractionalSecondDigits. Proposed mental framework: “fractional” is an adjective describing seconds, fractionDigits is a different thing because fraction is a noun. “Fractional” here refers to seconds, not digits

USA: In this case, while we do not have a second now which fractional could describe, we still have an arbitrary unit, could be fractional[X]Digits. We are still editing the fractionalDigits of an arbitrary unit. 

SFC: does Temporal call the flag? Temporal has one too, right? fractionalSecondsDigits in Temporal. 

USA: another thing to consider: within NumberFormat we’re trying to have an internal consistency: we have [...] is significant not an 

SFC: My inclination is that fractionalDigits in DurationFormat is more similar to fractionalSecondDigits in DateTimeFormat and the rest of Temporal. If we were designing NumberFormat from scratch, there are several changes I would have made  if designing from scratch.

USA : The question is anyone is opposed to have fractional digits in DurationFormat?

USA:  A lot of this is mitigated by editors having autocomplete 

ZB: Are there cases where we would want to have both at the same time? I think probably not.

USA: don’t think it’s a possibility to have both in the near-term future

SFC: proposes we close this issue and keep fractionalDigits. 

#### Conclusion

Close the issue.

### Should "approximatelySign" be renamed to "approximateSign"?

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-numberformat-v3/issues/121

RGN: as part of the impromptu review, one thing that struck me was the use of approximatelySign as type field of a record return from formatToParse. Unusual in context of other values of that field, especially those that end with sign. Is renaming proper?

USA: approximate as an adjective sounds better – would support approximateSign over approximatelySign, latter is hard to understand

SFC : The name of this option predates ECMA402 in ICU and CLDR. I think I probably proposed those names. The name seems more natural. Also, since this is a Stage 3 proposal and browsers already shipped I’m inclined to keep it .

ZB : I would stick with the current name 

DM: +1 

RGN: I’m not objected to keep the approximatelySign just wanted us to make a conscious decision  

EAO: We could consider "aboutSign", in response to how one would read it in natural language.

ZB: Links: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Approximation, https://www.rapidtables.com/math/symbols/Basic_Math_Symbols.html

FYT: The sign indicates "approximately equal", so technically it should be approximatelyEqualToSign

SFC : I propose as a conclusion that we close this issue, primarily on the basis that there isn't a clear best alternative to the status quo, and we should favor the status quo at Stage 3

RCA: +1 to keep current name

#### Conclusion

Close the issue.

### Can the order in which properties are read be more comprehensible?

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-numberformat-v3/issues/122

RGN:(Introducing the issue)

FYT: What is the motivation for making the change? Why does it matter if we have a different order

RGN: It's observable and needs to be tested, and it would be nice if there is predictability of this.

FYT: I understand, but I don't understand why one is more predictable than the other.

RGN: Alphabetical is more predictable.

FYT: Do we ever have alphabetical?

RGN: Yes. And especially in Temporal, we have insertion order, where the properties are copied in a very early step of reading an options bag, and anything else is no longer observable.

FYT: Lookin at this list, I don’t understand your argument. It was never alphabetical order.

RGN: NumberFormat is not, but you said anywhere

FYT: Right, NF was never alphabetical order.

RGN: Exactly, the state isn’t great anymore.

FYT: never intended to be alphabetical order, someone in the past introduced the idea that it should be alphabetic order, doesn’t believe there was consensus that this was the right thing to do

RGN: You can see the complexity that can stem from implementation and testing to ensure that the reads and assignments are in fact in the correct order. The order is itself observable 

FYT: It was never a criterion before it reached Stage 3 that this had to be in order, was never on the table. It has to be in some sort of order, but alphabetic was never put on table. 

FYT: Let me say this: assume we don’t have NFv3. Would we switch to alphabetical order?

RGN: it is clearly not. This issue doesn’t mention alphabetical. Just giving alphabetical as an example

FYT: in NFv2, the read order is alphabetical. If we do not have NFv3, do we still need to discuss the order?

RGN: yes

USA: I agree with RGN, NF as pointed out was standardized before some of those conventions appear

SFC: Tend to agree with FYT that this issue is a ship that’s already sailed for NFv3. There is a little bit of sense to ordering right now, because we read the order in which we must because of dependencies. Doesn’t see opportunities to improve ordering – no way to make them alphabetical. Best we can do is add new options to the end, and put them in alphabetical order. Change: move trailingZeroDisplay down below roundingMode? About the best change we could make, not sure if high-impact. For new APIs we should try to do alphabetical order, for old APIs we have what we have and not worth trying to change it.

FYT: Still have questions about whether alphabetical order would be right thing. Would oppose. 

RGN: Withdrawing alphabetical as a context. Most likely resolution isn’t alphabetical, force a copy that reads everything in insertion order / order reported. Alphabetical not particularly likely guideline.

SFC: Question for RGN: raising issue, not clear on proposed alternative. Throw out current reads and read insertion order, or change order in NFv3 & change in stage 4? Normative change to switch order of reads, maybe web compatible and make it later.

RGN: Valid. What’s in scope is placement of green lines – not expecting NFv3 to include reordering whatever has already been published/stable as part of ECMA-402. What might change ise what those green lines look like: is it necessary to scatter the rounding related properties across this sequence or can they be clustered? Cannot impose alphabetical / enumeration across interface, proposal: keep this and change it across ECMA-402 in future. 

SFC: clarification: only possible change is to move trailingZeroDisplay under roundingMode, other things have reason for being where they are / may not be possible to move them, would require much bigger refactor of spec to move them. Doesn’t see what we can do concretely to make it better in an impactful way. 

FYT: asks RGN for clarification: where is insertion order coming from, 

RGN: Property enumeration order, which for a plain object is insertion order

SFC: insertion order coming from user objects

FYT: how does object get created? By resultOptions or by user. No way to predict how user will create object

RGN: We don’t need to predict it. 

FYT: will not be consistent

RGN: will be consistent with what they provided

FYT: why do we need to talk about order when we don’t have an order

RGN: there’s always an order, no way to read multiple properties atomically. Do not need to predict order ahead of time

SFC: Short term: what changes are we making to NFv3, doesn’t see proposal, inclined to leave NFv3, discuss in future not in context of NFv3?

RGN: Raised issue in NF to make sure that the introductions are as good as possible subject to constraints of cost of change

SFC: inclined to treat as conclusion, there’s a bit a mess but also feel that there is not a clear improvement. Not a way to arrange green lines that is significantly better than status quo. Revisit not just in NF but in other Intl constructors at larger scale. Leave as-is and discuss in 402

#### Conclusion

No change in NFv3. Revisit the issue in the context of ECMA-402 at large independently of NFv3.

### Normative: Limit exponent of intl mathematical value

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-numberformat-v3/pull/117

RCA: PR reflects web reality. This PR is mostly to add limit on number of significant digits. Intention of PR is to reflect current reality that anything with more than 309 digits goes to Infinity. Not sure why 309 adopted 

USA: Always somewhat unsettled with rounding to 300, 

SFC: two things: web reality is currently a smaller number of digits, not sure how/why. Second is concerns for having unlimited value, cannot change w/o changing representation of decimals in NFv3. Two parts: # of sig digits, other is max exponent, more concerned about max exponent. If limit on number of digits, that would make it easier to implement. When it comes to ICU4X, the representation would have to be altered if we go ahead with the idea of Number.MAX_SAFE_VALUE.

USA: question, would it be unreasonable to ask AB to attend call? 

SFC: AB on invitation, does not have contact with them directly 

DLM: They are a volunteer so it is likely that they might not have the time or availability to attend.

SFC: Set a minimum, if implementation wants to go beyond, that’s fine, if we want to raise the limits later we can. Get landed this week so we can get to stage 4

RCA: max value would affect IC4UX

SFC: What we should do now is reflect web reality, more restrictive than what TG2 approved in May, kick can down the road.

RCA: We can reflect web reality, previously discussed 1000 as max exponent, not sure which should apply – 100 would cover current web reality

FYT: are you saying we should throw exception if beyond limit, or formatted different way

RCA: formatted different way

FYT: these values could throw exception

SFC: never throw exception, not on table 

FYT: changing from something that’s possible to return Infinity, -Infinity, -0. If no exception

SFC: currently spec requires unbounded mathematical values to be formatted

SFC: suggesting Romulo change v8 to reflect spec, use Infinity for overflow from sufficiently large numbers

FYT: Either way formatting result, how to verify? 

USA: Clarifying question for SFC: idea that beyond the limit implementations can choose whether to fail over to Infinity.  [...]

SFC: yes, but max value and min value way beyond what ICU4X supports, proposal to set to v8 value 	

USA: Even if we go ahead with something like that, ICU4X would not have to change representation, just need to bump up the size of data type it uses

SFC: another way to spec this out is we should say that if the value of the Intl mathematical value is > R(Number.MAX_VALUE), then that’s where we say implementations are permitted to use Infinity replacement character 

USA: Number.MAX_VALUE is a float.

SFC: The comparison should be in the MV space.

USA: That should satisfy AB’s concern too, not that we need to necessarily go down that road.

FYT: wanted to point out, one of the difficulties: mathematical value should be a string, any time we want to compare with a value we have to do parsing of that value, need very precise comparison to make it really work.

SFC: Implementations are permitted, but not required, to do this. There should be no mandate that any impl needs to perform an MV-space comparison. What v8 is currently doing, since v8 is not currently spec-compliant. Propose: make v8 behavior spec-compliant, nothing FYT needs to do.

#### Conclusion

Use R(Number.MAX_VALUE) as the (optional) limit. Double check with Anba.

### Normative: alter formatToParts Output 

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-duration-format/pull/126

USA: #126 is one part bugfix, one part implementor feedback. Three issues: bugfix. Bug filed by FYT that pointed out result of formatToParts not great, especially digital  as described in [#114](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-duration-format/issues/114) . [...] Need to group Duration part together in one big unit and pass them together with no separators between them. Also recently had conclusion in last monthly meeting where we decided that [..]
Also, general feedback of shape of formatToParts, doesn’t allow enough flexibility to be useful for most developers. Example formatToParts output reached consensus. This is one of the biggest issues in DurationFormat, move on to stage 4? 

#### Conclusion

Ask for Stage 4 at the next TC39 

### Normative: Change the getters to methods

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale-info/pull/65

SFC: Feels like the next step is TG1 decide it from us ,  so should be added on next plenary agenda

#### Conclusion

FYT to reach consensus at TG1

### Should Intl APIs match Temporal interpretation of calendar and timeZone options? #741 

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/741

SFC: Currently time zone and calendar options we have on Intl methods take strings. Temporal take string and object that can be coerced to string, but also ISO string and object with calendar or timeZone property. When should Intl options named calendar and timeZones also accept these other two forms of input? Proposal: keep things way they are w/o changing them, revisit in year or so once Temporal lands at stage 4

FYT : My position I would prefer no changes, but if changes are needed I would prefer to not change Intl constructor, mostly because that part of API is perf sensitive and I don't want to see many changes on that part and avoid any possible inconsistency with 402. So I support a path that those changes not originate inconsistency. 

SFC: Calendar and timeZone are special because Temporal makes them special. If some proposal to make currency an ECMA type, change to reflect.

#### Conclusion

We are not doing any change at moment , I propose to revisit it after Temporal lands at Stage 4 and decide way to go. Put in ES2024, revisit at that point

### Temporal.Calendar.toLocaleString method

https://github.com/js-temporal/proposal-temporal-v2/issues/25

FYC: In Temporal they have a lot of toLocaleString, no reason Temporal.Calendar can’t have

USA: Make toLocaleString use display names? 

FYC: All other Temporal objects have a toLocaleString. 

SFC: If someone would put up proposal to add, is this something we’d support? 

USA: Strongly in support. 

FYC: Not for current Temporal proposal, ship something. Already very thick proposal. 

### Intl.Segmenter with URLs, email addresses, and acronyms #656 ####

RGN: Moved upstream, will take on as proposal.

SFC: Current status of issue: in CLDR-43. Blocked because blocked on upstream. Not actionable.

---

USA: Did we drop UnitFormat?

SFC: There are two stage 1 proposals. Committee decided can’t have proper unit formatter until user preferences.
