September 26 Attendees:

- Shane Carr - Google i18n (SFC), Moderator
- Daniel Ehrenberg - Igalia (DE)
- Frank Tang - Google i18n, V8 (FYT)
- Jahziel Villasana - Student working with Igalia (JVA)
- Leo Balter - Bocoup (LEO)
- Long Ho - Dropbox, Format.js, react intl (LHO)
- Steven Loomis - IBM (SRL)

Not attending but left notes:

- Jeff Walden - Spidermonkey (JSW)
- Romulo Cintra - CaixaBank (RCA), MessageFormat Working Group Liaison


[Discussion Board](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/projects/2)

[Status Wiki](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/wiki/Proposal-and-PR-Progress-Tracking)

## Next Meeting

October 24, 10am PDT (5pm GMT)

[Calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=unicode.org_nubvqveeeol570uuu7kri513vc%40group.calendar.google.com)

## Liaison Updates

### MessageFormat Working Group

- [Mailing list](https://groups.google.com/a/chromium.org/forum/#!forum/message-format-wg)

RCA: Just had last meeting of 1-1 Series with Mihai. 

RCA: I will share in working group/ send to all delegates by email and add in the meeting notes de doodle to schedule the Meeting for Message Format 

Doodle link: https://doodle.com/poll/thy6633vf7yaz2ir

## PR Status Updates

### Normative: Add calendar and numberingSystem options (#175)

- [PR](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/175)
- Previously: FYT decided to wait until the next two issues get addressed (#227, #351).  Because it could cause forward-behavior problems.
- Last month: DE: I don't understand why 349 and 351 are marked as dependencies; SFC will sync with FYT.

FYT: I think there are no spec dependencies.  It's just for product launching, they might have dependencies.  But from a spec point of view there is no dependency.

DE: I think we shouldn't concern ourselves with product launching for dependency.

SFC: I'll try to get this to consensus at TC39 next week

FYT: Do we need 1 or 2 browsers?

DE: This is an action item on me; personally I'd really recommend that we really have 1 browser and another browser with strong intent, and if we have 2 browsers then that's better.

SFC: Is it sufficient for the feature to be behind flags?

DE: In my opinion, yes, but I know others disagree.  The practice we've been going with in ECMA-402 for PRs is what I said above.  But it's not codified in any particular process because TC39 has declined to codify a PR process.

### Normative: Permit relatedYear and yearName in output (#351)

- [PR](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/351)
- Previously: ECMA 402 has consensus on the PR, and the directly related PRs.
- Last month: We need TC39 approval.

DE: Igalia to follow up with a locale style test.

Additional comments from FYT:

> The implementation of pull/175 is behind the flag 
> `--harmony_intl_add_calendar_numbering_system` since April and is push to "staged" since July 11.
>
> I am checking in the implementation of pull/349/ and pull/351 minutes ago both under the flag
> `--harmony_intl_other_calendars`
>
> The right thing to do is to add more tests to test262 cover these 3 CLs for now. And I will see could I push  harmony_intl_other_calendars to stage early next week with more tests.
>
> I think it is better to launch these two together in chrome because these 3 are intertwined in natural and could be very bad to launch one without the other. If we got enough test coverage by mid of next week then I will try to squeeze it into m79, which have the feature flag flip deadline on 10/4 (next Friday). So for now it is a 50 / 50 chance we can make it (with the amount of test coverage we can make into test262)


### Normative: Allow calendar to determine choice of pattern (#349)

- [PR](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/349)
- Previously: Consensus based on #351.
- Last month: LEO: If whoever is writing the tests finds it's not possible, let me know so I can proceed with merging the PR.

SFC: Is this observable behavior such that we need changes in V8/SM?

FYT: It's implementation-dependent.  I did update V8.  The question is whether it is possible to write a test for that behavior.

LEO: Test262 cannot force implementations to have observables that are not required by the spec.

LEO: This is implementation-dependent so we shouldn't block on vendors.

SFC: I would like to have buy-in from vendors before merging.

SRL: I think we should look at a bug report.  This is written in an abstract way, but I think we can come up with a very concrete bug, e.g., in the Hebrew calendar.  Basically we need a bug that says, as a user, I got X but expected Y.

FYT: But ECMA doesn't require Hebrew.

SRL: But if an implementation does support Hebrew, the implementation would be out of spec.

SRL: I'll take that as an action item.

DE: For testability, can we use a locale test?

FYT/SRL: Yes

### Normative: Add fractionalSecondDigits option

- [PR](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/347)
- Last month: Landed in SM

FYT: In V8, it's currently under a flag.  And Andre had several good comments about the PR.

SFC: Editorial changes?

FYT: No, he pointed out a lot of technical things that I missed.

SFC: Does this affect the SM/V8 implementation?

FYT: Yeah, it will

### Normative: Add dayPeriod option

- [PR](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/346)
- Last month: Blocked by ICU

SRL: What's the status of the bugs?

SFC: FB is assigned the tickets; he will get to it in Q4.  Igalia could also help.

DE: I'll follow up on this.

### Previous PRs

Do we have MDN for these?

- https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/279
- https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/278
- https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/341
- https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/333

- Last month:
  - LEO: Tests are covered.
  - RCA: I'm checking the issues.



## Proposal Status Updates

### Intl.ListFormat (Stage 3)

- [Proposal](https://github.com/zbraniecki/proposal-intl-list-format)
- [Firefox Bug](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1433306): likely to be reviewed/landed later this week
- [Test262 Tests](https://test262.report/features/Intl.ListFormat?date=2019-07-10): Good.
- [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ListFormat): Good.
- [MDN Bug](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-list-format/issues/37) Closed 
- Main blocker: bug with `type: 'disjunction'` in Spanish, [#45](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-list-format/issues/45)
- Last month: JSW: Blocked by https://unicode-org.atlassian.net/browse/ICU-12863

SFC: I'll take a look at the ICU bug.

JSW: ListFormat is basically landable when I find the time to do it

### Intl.Locale (Stage 3)

- [Proposal](https://github.com/zbraniecki/proposal-intl-locale)
- [Firefox Bug](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1433303)
- [Firefox Bug 2](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1522070)
- [Test262 Tests](https://test262.report/features/Intl.Locale?date=2019-07-10): Good.
- [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Locale): Needs examples, work on going from Jahziel Villasana and Romulo.
- [MDN Bug]: https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale/issues/70 Closed 
- Previously: André Bargull (@anba) also has an implementation that is on the review queue for mozilla.
- Last month: Intl.Locale landed in SpiderMonkey!  The feature is enabled, but only if you flip a preference.

Note: DE requested to wait on Stage 4 until December.

DE: I will invite Caio.

SFC: Please add them to the ecma402-delegates@chromium.org list.

JSW: Intl.Locale I'm hopeful can be finished soon if anba can respond to review comments on a last couple patches.

### Intl.RelativeTimeFormat (Stage 3)

- [Proposal](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-relative-time)
- [Test262 Tests](https://test262.report/features/Intl.RelativeTimeFormat?date=2019-07-10): Good.
- [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/RelativeTimeFormat): Good.

Note: DE requested to wait on Stage 4 until December.

### Intl.NumberFormat Unified API Proposal (Stage 3)

- [Proposal](https://github.com/sffc/proposal-unified-intl-numberformat)
- [Test262 Tests](https://test262.report/features/Intl.NumberFormat-unified/intl402): Only 4.
- [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/NumberFormat): Does not contain examples for this proposal.
- [MDN Bug](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-unified-intl-numberformat/issues/50)
- [Test262 Bug](https://github.com/tc39/test262/issues/2233)
- [SpiderMonkey](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1566410)
- Last month: RCA: I'm taking care of prioritizing this MDN and also formatRange. SFC: I will look at [this list](https://phabricator.services.mozilla.com/D38338) of issues blocking Stage 4.

SFC: I'll have an update for next month's meeting.

RCA: Documentation for "unit" and "notation" was added with Experimental Badge(Before we have it in compat-data table that explains where api is available. Static Examples for "unit" and "notation" are there as well.

https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/NumberFormat#Using_style_and_unit

https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/NumberFormat#Using_notation

RCA: Missing Sign Display Options(if all is Ok i will document during next days).

RCA: Interactive Examples Must be added but need to coordinate with JVA.

### DateTimeFormat dateStyle & timeStyle (Stage 3)

- [Proposal](https://github.com/zbraniecki/proposal-ecma402-datetime-style)
- [Test262 Tests](https://test262.report/features/Intl.DateTimeFormat-datetimestyle): 16 tests.
- [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DateTimeFormat): Options documented (Missing Browser Compat-data)
- [MDN Bug](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-datetime-style/issues/33)
- [Firefox Bug](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1557718)
- [SpiderMonkey](https://searchfox.org/mozilla-central/source/toolkit/components/mozintl/mozIntl.jsm#830)
- Previously: V8 ship with Chrome 76. In SpiderMonkey (not exposed). JVA: I'm working on the MDN docs with RCA.  We have an issue to track.

JSW: dateStyle/timeStyle that we mentioned last meeting also still on the list of "we should do the minor polishing needed to ship"

SFC: Are there any issues blocking Stage 4 for this one?

(silence)

SFC: We can sync again with Mozilla to flip the bit before December.

FYT: I think this is good because they have the implementation and it's championed by them.

### Intl.DateFormat.prototype.formatRange (Stage 3)

- [Proposal](https://github.com/fabalbon/proposal-intl-DateTimeFormat-formatRange)
- [Firefox Bug](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1496584)
- [Test262 Tests](https://test262.report/browse/intl402/DateTimeFormat/prototype/formatRange): Good.
- [MDN](): https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DateTimeFormat/formatRange 
- [MDN Bug] https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-DateTimeFormat-formatRange/issues/12
- Previously: V8 ship with Chrome 76. The tests are all in.  We are in good shape. Spidermonkey intends to implement, can’t commit to any timeline. JVA: We have an issue to track formatRange for me and RCA. VY: Test262 is complete; I reviewed the PRs a while ago.
- Last month: FB: Currently this is blocked by 4 issues that were filed against ICU.  My intent is to start working on the issues in the next 1-2 months.  It means though that it is released in the Spring release of ICU.

RCA: Both Pages for formatRange and formatRangeToParts have basic documentation and waiting for 2 PR for interactive-examples to land.

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-DateTimeFormat-formatRange/issues/12

SFC: I don't think there's any other updates here besides the ICU issues.

### Intl.Segmenter (Stage 2)

- [Proposal](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-segmenter)
- Previously: extended discussion about RG's proposed changes. Additional deep dive meeting with ICU stakeholders.
- Last month: RG: My plan still remains to push for advancement at the next TC39 meeting.

SFC: We had a big discussion at the last meeting that requires spec work.  Unfortunately it doesn't look like it's ready for October, but I think this is on track for December.

DE: I'll follow up with Ms2ger to write the spec text.

SFC: I'll ask for Stage 3 reviewers in the update presentation.

SRL: Summary seems to be here: [tc39/proposal-intl-segmenter#80 (comments)](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-segmenter/issues/80#issuecomment-528511310)

### Intl.DisplayNames (Stage 2)

- [Proposal](https://github.com/tc39-transfer/proposal-intl-displaynames)
- Last month: Discussions about issues 46 and 47.

#### [Values of code for type: "dayPeriod" #50](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-displaynames/issues/50)

- Last month: decided to split "dateTime" to type: “month”, “weekday”, “quarter”, “dayPeriod”.
- Question: for "dayPeriod" should we use integer or string?
- Last month's points in favor of numbers:
  - If we add "am" "pm", we are adding new string identifiers to the language.
  - It almost sounds like the issue with quarters.  We included quarters but not trimesters.  And we're using numbers for quarters.  So I think it makes sense to use numbers for day periods, 1 and 2. EA: It's not uniform to split a year into 4 parts.  And it's not necessarily uniform to split the day to 2 parts.  So the logic that follows from these non-universal splits should be for both.
  - You might have a user writing a for loop that starts at i=1, and write a loop to enumerate over day names, month names, etc.  am/pm should be the same.
  - It also makes sense that we are converting all of dateTime from strings to numbers.
- Last month's points in favor of strings:
  - We also have dateTimeField which has strings.  I think it makes more sense to use strings.  Either way, we have to code it into the table.
  - For the end user, I think "am" "pm" is easier to understand.

```javascript
new Intl.DisplayNames("en-US", {type: "dayPeriod"}).of(1); // "am"
new Intl.DisplayNames("en-US", {type: "dayPeriod"}).of("am"); // "am"
```

SRL: am/pm aren't the only… is this looking at other day periods besides am/pm?  Ethiopic has its own cycles.

SFC: If we were to add support for Ethiopic, the idea would be to use a different type, not conflicting with type: "dayPeriod".

SFC: We also had this discussion with month names.  Month 13, for example, is not always after month 12.

DE: I reviewed that offline, and looking at how ICU handles these, I agree that there is so much complexity that this seems fine.

SRL: So basically you would have to look at the spec to figure out what the ids are for?  If the idea is to be able to iterate over all the data that the browser has, that would be fine, but if the idea is to display "am", then an identifier makes more sense.

SFC: The users have to look at the doc page anyway to know type: "dayPeriod".

SRL: There's not necessarily something in the API that gives you a list of all possible things.  There's not an API that gives you an exhaustive list.  You need the spec to know what the possible inputs are.  So by that argument, an integer could be as good as anything else.  It's also easy to add things to the end of a numeric list.

FYT: Or we could do both. But I don't like to.

SRL: We shouldn't add redundancy unless there is good reason.

SFC: Yeah.

SRL: For a 12-month year, the months are in order, so it makes sense to enumerate them.  But for something outside of that, like day periods, the risk is that the developer will look at their own locale, see they are in order, and assume they are always in order.

SFC: Could we just guarantee that day periods / months are in order?

SRL/DE: No, it's complicated.

FYT: Most pieces of the API are strings.  So I think by default, the API should use strings.  We should only change to numbers when there is a strong reason.  I just don't think this case is a strong reason.

SRL: ISO has numbers for regions, etc., but we don't want to go there.

SRL: Quarters are sequential.  It might bring a false sense of security for months.  It's complex enough that explaining why months are the way they are needs to be done anyway.  Maybe we should talk about this in the spec, that the numbers are not guaranteed to be sequential.  Even hours are not guaranteed to be sequential.  So as long as we make it clear, don't iterate.

SFC: You could iterate and check return values for null, as long as you don't unconditionally stop at 12.

FYT: Iteration is a reasonable need.  How can a web developer know, to choose a calendar and do something.

SRL: Thinking about the dropdown use case, maybe it is useful to have the months ordered in the year.

FYT: What is the conclusion here?  We're talking about am/pm here.

SRL: It could be numeric.  That probably makes more sense to be named.

SRL: Could we add aliases?

SFC: If we do that, we should add aliases for all of the categories with numbers.

SRL: I think we can keep am/pm as numeric.

FYT: Currently am/pm are a string.

DE: I like this conclusion.

SFC: Which one?

DE: I don't know, I'm leaning toward am/pm as strings.  It seems like the more elaborate periods will be more complicated to add.  This is similar to, you know, Intl.DisplayNames should have an API to access leap month names.  I think our DisplayNames API is not rich enough as of now.  I think that's a situation we're going to be in with am/pm.  Being numbered doesn't make sense.

SRL: my presentation on CLDR day periods: https://cdn.rawgit.com/srl295/srl295-slides/2016-11-02-iuc40-cldradv/index.html#18 (right arrow to scroll forward)

SRL: So we're saying that this is an am/pm API and we should stick to those two strings.

LEO: Yeah. I think I'm in agreement with Daniel. am/pm is viscous because it is English-centric.  At the same time, numeric values don't make any more sense than using am/pm.  If we use string values, we can scale this API in the future if necessary.  If we use numbers, and we don't do it correctly, we have problems in the future.  And numeric values might be received differently and have different meanings for different people.  Strings seem the lesser of the evils.  +1, we don't need to discuss camel case for these.

LHO: I agree; numbers also have 0/1 ambiguity.  am/pm is clearer.

SFC: I'm convinced with the argument, use strings now because they're more future-proof.

Consensus: use strings for am/pm.

#### [Address review feedback from litherum #40](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-displaynames/pull/40)

DE: You should talk to Michael Saboff at TC39 if you don't get a response from MM.

### Temporal (Stage 2)

- [Proposal](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-temporal)
- Last month: Ms2ger has a preliminary PR ([#140](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-temporal/pull/140))

SFC: The idea is the proposal will affect the spec text of both 262 and 402.

DE: It follows the pattern of BigInt.  Temporal is still undergoing changes; we'll ask for reviewers and tell them it's ready for review with a month's notice.

FYT: BigInt had a separate PR against ECMA-402.

DE: Yeah, this is a bit different.  I think what Temporal is doing is what we should do going forward.

SFC/FYT: I agree

## Discussions

- [Board](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/projects/2)

### [Style Guide for casing conventions](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/377)

SFC: Does this look good?  Do we have consensus that this reflects our ECMA-402 decision?

DE: Yes

SRL: I would also mention BCP47, but that could be a follow on

LEO: I think it looks great

FYT: What is the process?

SFC: I'm bringing it to TC39 for transparency.  I put it in a file named "style guide" which should be a sufficiently official place to put it.

FYT: Is there a place in the spec to talk about casing conventions?

SFC: I'm not aware of anything in ECMA-402 that conflicts with this style guide as far as I am aware.

DE: I think the repo is a good place to put this since we're talking about future evolution.

FYT: Does this doc need to go anywhere else?

DE: There's the TAG style guide, which lives outside the spec, with the understanding that those rules are not always able to be followed.  WebGL is an example.  So I think the repo is a good place for this.

### [Slides for October TC39](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1tuW131HEuqZNd-HF6dNr-VLjNR1ItzXBaL5FloqGcbE/edit#slide=id.g442f4955c0_0_50)

SFC: There is room for us to start working on more proposals.

SRL: I would like to work on numeric properties.  Basically, exposing Unicode character property values.

DE: That's a huge feature request from Node.

SRL: There's a lot that every implementation has to have, but it is a big chunk of data for every application to have to re-implement.  This fits into things like classifying emoji, what's a valid password, etc.  It's #90.

SFC: This is a popular ICU feature, which I think is already good justification that's it's useful for JS.




