# 2022-08-04 ECMA-402 Meeting
## Logistics

### Attendees

- Shane Carr - Google i18n (SFC), Co-Moderator
- Ujjwal Sharma - Igalia (USA), Co-Moderator
- Romulo Cintra - Igalia (RCA), MessageFormat Working Group Liaison
- Yusuke Suzuki - Apple (YSZ)
- Kevin Gibbons (KG)
- Richard Gibson - OpenJS Foundation (RGN)
- Tomomi Imura - Microsoft
- Frank Yung-Fong Tang - Google i18n, V8 (FYT)
- Eemeli Aro - Mozilla (EAO)
- Zibi Braniecki - Amazon Alexa (ZB)
- Addison Phillips - W3C I18N WG (AP)

### Standing items

- [Discussion Board](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/projects/2)
- [Status Wiki](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/wiki/Proposal-and-PR-Progress-Tracking) -- please update!
- [Abbreviations](https://github.com/tc39/notes/blob/master/delegates.txt)
- [MDN Tracking](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402-mdn)
- [Meeting Calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=unicode.org_nubvqveeeol570uuu7kri513vc%40group.calendar.google.com)
- [Matrix](https://matrix.to/#/#tc39-ecma402:matrix.org)

## Status Updates

### Editor's Update

USA: Been merging a couple PRs

### MessageFormat Working Group

RCA: Slowing down recurrent meetings, but EAO, Mihai, and Stas are working on MessageFormat implementations.

EAO: The npm package `messageformat` is currently working, the "next-dist" tag. It has additional tooling for working with messageformat in JavaScript. There are also compatibility packages, making it possible to use either MF1 or Fluent sources with the MF2 runtime and systems. The Fluent package allows for two-way conversions.

http://messageformat.github.io/messageformat/api/messageformat/
https://www.npmjs.com/package/messageformat/v/next

EAO: ZB is working on an implementation, too.

ZB: I started looking into this as a place for implementers’ feedback. It seems complicated and not very easy to build parsers, but text parsing is difficult. Performance looks great, I should be able to finish up the implementation soon and we’ll have a client-side polyfill.

https://github.com/unicode-org/icu4x/pull/2272

RCA: The goal is to have everything on technical preview this fall.

### Proposal Status Changes

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/wiki/Proposal-and-PR-Progress-Tracking

## Pull Requests

(none this month)

## Proposals and Discussion Topics

### Web compatibility: Allow the string "true" for "useGrouping"? #74

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-numberformat-v3/issues/74

KG: The reason that’s coming up it’s because we are proposing new possible values , and the question it’s what we should do with string that are not 
Recognized. 

FYT: Clarification question… if the input in the past before v3 is the string "false", how will it be treated by the spec?

SFC: We cast string to bool and get the “auto” behavior 

YSZ: It is treated as true. And before this fix, "false" was throwing an error.

FYT : Before V3 any string would be treated as true 

KG: Other than the empty string.

USA: There is a possible option of splitting this into two options. I know it's frustrating to have that, but it seems like a more verbose but cleaner and more web compatible.

SFC: My position is that since this is already shipping in browsers, we should rule out all other options before considering any major API changes. If “true” and “false” are the only strings with web-compat issues, we can hardcode “false” for example. Also note that this is a Stage 3 proposal.

KG: I'm happy with that. Either the current behavior or the "fixed" behavior for "false" are fine.

YSZ: That seems fine to me. Before v3, the only values were true and false. If either were stringified, then that should still work.

FYT: We need to be careful about “false” the string here. Currently, if you’re using useGrouping, it will cause web-compat issues as well. You either treat "false" as false, "false" as true, or "false" as error. I think throwing error is better than false, because that would be different behavior.

SFC: I propose that we map both “true” and “false” to “auto” which is the current web-reality. Does someone object to that?

FYT: I dislike that. We should throw an error there.

YSZ: The current web will be broken.

FYT: But it's currently a bug.

EAO: My preference is to avoid breaking current web reality… changing behavior will break something for someone.

RCA: This is the current spec behavior for "false", right?

SFC: Yes; this is a cross between the old NFv3 and the current NFv3.

USA: We may need to rephrase how we handle breaking changes. Sure, it is producing a somewhat different localized string, but that's ideally not something you're depending on.

EAO: USA convinced me. I'm fine with us changing behavior so long as something that didn't throw an error before starts throwing behavior.

USA: Throwing an error on something that didn't throw an error is a breaking change.

KG: So there's breaking in theory and breaking in practice. It sounds like we know there are users in the wild using "true" and "false". Rejecting other values is breaking in theory, but we hope we can get away with it.

FYT: How about different casing of strings ‘True’ or ‘False’ 

KG: As I mentioned, there’s an important difference between breaking in theory and practice, and I’d recommend we should special-case only the string we know about so far.

FYT; How we know the difference between lowercase and uppercase true 

SFC: Because "true" and "false" are stringified ECMAScript identifiers.

SFC: Back to my proposal from above; treat "true" and "false" as "auto", and reject all others that are not otherwise defined?

EAO: +1

YSZ: +1

KG: +1

FYT: Clarifying question, this only applies to “true” and “false”, right?

SFC: Yes

#### Conclusion

Yes on the above

### Changes to InitializeDateTimeFormat break web compatibility #2363

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-temporal/issues/2363

FYT: There are a lot of changes to 402 in the Temporal proposal, but I feel that our group has not discussed it enough. This issue, #2363… in Intl.DateTimeFormat, we have a particular order in which fields are accessed. Temporal changes this order which is observable. Many test262 tests check this order which fail now.

USA: Clarifying questions … Does this cause existing test262 to fail ? 

FYT: Yes.

USA: Okay, I think this is most likely something that I did; however, this went with changes in the polyfill which also had test262 running against it.

FYT: Does the polyfill cover DateTimeFormat?

USA : Yeah , we have implemented the changes in that polyfill and somehow did not fail test262 tests

FYT: The polyfills implement toLocaleString, not DateTimeFormat, which is different. This is the Intl.DateTimeFormat constructor. toLocaleString calls in, but it has its own entrypoint.

USA: The proposal changes DateTimeFormat as well. Does the polyfill not expose this modified version of DTF? I think it might?

FYT: I don't believe so.

USA: Most likely, this is because of how the polyfill is written. I think it should be fairly uncontroversial to change the order back to the previous order.

YSZ: I'd like to know whether this change is mandatory for Temporal, or whether it was done by refactoring? If it is mandatory, we should look more closely, but if it was just a refactoring, we should just stick to the previous behavior.

USA: I think that any changes that Temporal makes on 402 side , in this case in constructor should be mandatory… when it reached stage 4 does changes will be merged in 402?

SFC: It’s an easy mistake to make , my instinct it’s likely a refactor no a necessity , I would suggest if USA can check if it’s easy to restore the observable behavior

YSZ: That makes sense!

FYT: So is that the conclusion? That this change should be rolled back to a state where it does not affect observable behavior, and USA is going to take the action to make a PR for that?

USA : Yes, unless this is necessary for Temporal.

#### Conclusion

USA to attempt to revert behavior changes here.

### formatRange(ToParts)? throw RangeError instead of TypeError #1932

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-temporal/issues/1932

FYT: (introduces issue)

USA: It’s obvious that the original function throw RangeError and now throw TypeErrors , might be justifiable that this be used and now accepting multiple different types , semantically  makes sense. Do we care more about semantics or about Web Compatibility ? 

SFA: This is similar to the previous discussion, my take is that we should normally have the current web reality behavior, and we should be explicit about the changes on the behavior. It’s unclear where changes are introduced making it difficult when reading the specification to understand what's the intent.

USA: Is it a Web compatibility issue if we change the error type ? still an error no ? 

KG: In practice, we have not found that changing the type of an error is a web compat issue. In theory, people could be depending on the certain type of error, but in practice, they don't very often, and HTML has a policy that changing an error type is not a web compat issue.

FYT: If there is no reason for change , we shouldn’t change it, we can discuss it and agree on change, but most of the changes I don’t find a justification. But we should carefully look at the spec and see the potential impact of those changes

SFC: I think it would be useful for the Temporal champions to be more clear about the changes to ECMA-402 behavior. PFC made a presentation in February, but it seems to not cover the details FYT found.

http://ptomato.name/talks/tc39tg2-2022-02/

USA: I understand the general idea of making no need changes ,but for this particular case the function has to accept Temporal … we can discuss if we should focus on Web Compatibility and forget about semantics and rollback to RangeError’s or be more strict semantically and use the errors according to the needs of spec

FYT: I disagree about that. If you look at the changes… it's currently changing from one error type to the other. But you could easily do the checking outside and keep compatibility. You can check… I understand what you're saying. But, even if this is the case, why was ECMA-402 not informed about this change? I'm worried that Temporal is making changes without putting them up for discussion in TC39-TG2. It's likely that we would agree with the change, but it should have been more explicit.

FYT: Another issue is how the Temporal proposal does the pattern handling, increasing the memory footprint of DateTimeFormat. I don't remember that being discussed.

USA: I understand, but I think this is a process oversight. We have been presenting every TG2 proposal here first. But Temporal is special, because it's primarily a 262 proposal that makes a lot of changes to 402. So maybe moving forward we should do something that Shane suggested.

FYT: We need more people to look at chapters 15 and 16. I've been saying this for a year. There are a lot of web sites that use Intl.DateTimeFormat, so impacts on memory footprint are big.

SFC: We had this discussion about this process issue several times and I tried to solve this by bringing champions from Temporal to present several times. Temporal champions might have done a better job on communicating and making more transparent those changes, but some ECMA402 delegates are quite familiar with this section of spec. I think we have discussed this at least 3 times and let’s learn from it. I encourage FYT and others to open issues and provide implementers feedback.

FYT : It’s nothing to do with …  Most of object has an 

USA: I can explore the feasibility of reverting the error type, but even if I can, do we want to do it?

SFC: I think, based on KG's comment above, that Temporal should change Intl.DateTimeFormat to have errors that are consistent with the rest of Temporal.

FYT: The issue is that if both x and y can cause errors, which error do you throw? It changes from x's error to y's error or vice versa.

#### Conclusion

USA to investigate the issue, and either revert the behavior change or come back to this group with the proposed behavior change and the motivation for that change so an explicit decision can be made.

### Add Temporal.Calendar.prototype.toLocaleString ( ) #2367

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-temporal/issues/2367

USA: What’s your proposed behavior ?  Use DisplayNames to display names of calendars ? 

SFC : Point of Order : We should discuss only issues on the agenda we can postpone it for the next meeting [#Issue] 

### Include individual numeric parts #19

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-duration-format/issues/19

USA: (introduces issue)

FYT: My opinion is that we should follow the precedent of DateTimeFormat and RelativeTimeFormat. 

SFC: I feel we should follow the RelativeTimeFormat precedence most closely, which is to use the numeric types.

USA: I’m not sure about that ,since DurationFormat formats compound units with multiple units I feel that does not have same constraints, just because how much data it’s produce and granularity , I’m not opposed to the proposed behavior but not foresee it as common use case for this function.

RGN: I can see myself having an opinion on this, but I don't have one right now.

RCA: +1

USA: I'd like to hear about the use cases for formatToParts in DurationFormat.

ZB: The use cases in DurationFormat formatToParts are the same as they are elsewhere. Styling is the easiest one.

USA: If you're styling the result of a duration formatting, would you style it at the level of an individual numeric part, or would you style it at the level of a unit?

ZB: That probably depends on the design system. I can imagine designers styling individual numeric units. If we do something less expressive, we are limiting the use cases. Which may be okay.

USA: I think the increase in complexity may not be substantial, but mainly my position is driven that the verbosity is increased to the point that it's not as useful in the common case.

SFC: We have seen many use cases for styling numbers and units separately: its’ styling units, pickers… and it's not uncommon to have a lot of parts. We have them in other Intl APIs.

USA: It's just a question about whether we should bubble up the additional numeric parts.

FYT: Both AOs are being called now.

EAO: A bit off-topic: for messageformat, we will need to solve this differently as there the potential number of parts for a message is effectively unlimited.

USA: We don't want to expose parts to a level of granularity that might be a hindrance.

… later …

USA: SFC pointed out that it's not very common to have multiple numeric parts. We don't support fraction digits for most units, and grouping separators are uncommon.

FYT: The minus sign may also be detected.

#### Conclusion

USA to move forward with the assumption of using numeric types, and come back with a more specific PR that we can discuss next month.

### Presentation from Addison Philips, chair of the W3C Internationalization WG

https://github.com/w3c/i18n-discuss/blob/gh-pages/explainers/string-meta-explainer-402.md

AP: The ask is whether we could add a new ECMAScript type for localizable strings.

USA. Within the context of this API we always be accepting regular string , that’s what we already do , we will be returning internationalized strings 

AP: Right. You have multiple reasons to be interested in this. For example, you could output strings that have an ordering associated with them. Because if something is being inserted, you may benefit from being able to return an LString instead of just a String.

USA: It’s interesting , once you mention this, Duration and ListFormat or other formatters will definitely require something like this… the absence of directionality it’s not ideal in the current situation.

AP: Yes. We have a whole section on "spillover effects" which are exactly for those cases.

FYT: When you mention this for transmitting the natural language data, basically there are already a lot of mechanisms for transferring data. For example, you could have an Accept-Language header. So when you say "transmitting", what does that mean? Because people could be passing a JSON object from client side to server side. We already have a primitive that could represent a string, and they can use their own structure to annotate it. Why not have a composite with existing types?

AP: Our thinking goes like this. There are existing document formats and APIs that exist on the web and in other places. We can certainly use those to assemble what we need for message metadata values. What we're finding is that we need to have this conversation over and over again to accomplish the ability of that language to handle natural language content. We collaborated with Json-LD. We're satisfied that it solves our problems in that space. But that's only for that specific spec. Our next stop was, okay, we take existing primitives and assemble them into something. But we'd like to get this into WebIDL, etc. So then we think that we should approach TC39 to add a data type.

FYT: I think that makes sense, when you add a new Data Type to the language the question should be coming from TC39 , “is there any benefit in adding this ?  or this solves a problem that cannot be solved without it” , what's the “added value for the language”. 

AP: That's a great question. You can imagine that having a standard serialization could be useful.

SFC: Temporal is an example where TC39 it’s adding new primordials for those examples of data types. One comment I brought up it’s if we had R&T would we need Temporal ? Your proposing a string with metadata should be appropriate, have a “schema” then use R&T to represent it in JS.  Not saying that we should do it but it’s another possible avenue using R&T as an immutable data type that can be used already with built in deserialization/serialization capabilities etc…

EAO: Wondering if implementation we add a couple of metadata fields … 

AP: The question is what defaults should become … but could be a more effective way to make it

USA:  toString and toJson semantics, just worried if we serialize the string in a way  we might  lose this information , Records it’s the canonical way of creating a dictionary in the language and this it’s one and might be the good way to create this feature on the language.

AP: Doesn’t have to be a primitive type, could an object

FYT : Do we have a list of attributes , are you only considering those (Language and Direction)

AP: Yes, those are core ones we like to see in general

FYT : Why do we need directions here ? 

AP: You need base paragraph direction for strings in cases strong heuristics determinate directions , document shows spillover effects .


 AP: Your data it’s only data , nothing says you cannot use RLM but we should have to take your string RLM in front of it to get the right behavior  

FYT: You have to annotate that string anyway, you’re just annotating externally.

AP: It annotates outside of the string 

FYT: But you can treat the first and last characters differently, right?


EAO: Responding to USA… String instances don't have toJSON defined for them. So it would be an interesting change to add that. It might change something or it might not.

USA: I wasn’t aware of that … this falls back to obj.toJSON … 

EAO: this is not defined … But it’s entirely possible that folks have code that verifies if that exists 

SFC: No thoughts on the toJSON issue. My high level comments are, I feel that W3C group came to ECMA-402 with a solution and hoping we can implement it, but I think we should have more discussion on the problem before jumping to the solution. We should consider use cases for ECMA402 and TC39 having them as stakeholders instead of an “implementers” body of standards. For example, is there a unified way to handle issues we have such as formatToParts, MessageFormat v2, text layout, spoken text, and display context / inclections?

AP: This it’s meant to be general , and the use cases you mention are related… MF , formaToParts while exposing sections of formatted values , language metadata it’s interesting by a number of use cases, my biggest concern it’s how things will fit together

ZB: … for voicei interface would be an extra annotation to better inform “tone” or other metainfo that can be associated with it. But having at least some locale aware information associated with it it’s important. In arabic strings you can have part that are Latin and currently we cannot detect it

MCM: I want to support the argument that different web APIs need to fit together. Part of what's being proposed here is peppering i18n information across the web platform, and I think that's a different desire than all the cases that were listed before. MFv2 for example is not trying to add annotations to GPU, but this proposal is. One of the interesting ideas is having a tree of strings. Maybe we want to say that everything in this tree has the same metadata.

AP: That's certainly a consideration. One of the best practices is to have a document-level default direction, and overriding on each individual string.

MCM: And the last thing I wanted to mention was to respond to "just insert an RLM at the beginning of a string". I think AP's answer was right there. Having this problem solved out-of-band is clearly better from the developer's point of view. The whole benefit of this proposal is to give a structured way across all web APIs.
