# 2024-06-20 ECMA-402 Meeting

## Logistics

### Attendees

- Shane Carr - Google i18n (SFC), Co-Moderator
- Louis-Aimé de Fouquières - Invited Expert (LAF)
- Ujjwal Sharma - Igalia (USA), Co-Moderator
- Yusuke Suzuki - Apple (YSZ)

### Standing items

- [Discussion Board](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/projects/2)
- [Status Wiki](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/wiki/Proposal-and-PR-Progress-Tracking) -- please update!
- [Abbreviations](https://github.com/tc39/notes/blob/master/delegates.txt)
- [MDN Tracking](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402-mdn)
- [Meeting Calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=unicode.org_nubvqveeeol570uuu7kri513vc%40group.calendar.google.com)
- [Matrix](https://matrix.to/#/#tc39-ecma402:matrix.org)

## Status Updates

### Updates from the Editors

USA: There's a lot of work recently on the editorial side. It won't make it into ES 2024 but will be coming up. We would be glad to receive more editorial suggestions and comments. We should thinking ahead about what we can do to further improve the spec for readers, implementers, and other groups.

SFC: Where do we stand on landing the big PR from Anba last summer that Ben updated?

USA: Looks like they are merged

### Updates from the MessageFormat Working Group

USA: The plan at the moment is to expand the set of stakeholders in MF by inviting more people.

SFC: There's an open issue with TG5. Is there anything we can do to accelerate the MF study in TG5?

USA: Yeah I can take an action about that.

### Updates from Implementers

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/wiki/Proposal-and-PR-Progress-Tracking

(none)

### Updates from the W3C i18n Group

(no liaison present)

## Proposals and Discussion Topics

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/projects/2

### eraDisplay Action Items

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-eradisplay/issues/9

LAF: The present state is that we've discussed making the CLDR drive the process of displaying the era. I think it's a good idea as of now. But should other people be in the loop to move forward? Until now, it was only a question of analyzing whenever there was an error field in the date to be displayed and now we’ve to consider something that could be in CLDR and say “if we’re in this situation we have to … and in another situation we have to cancel it”. Should we make a sort of mock-up to see how things should work?

SFC: Of the CLDR data?

LAF: Yes.

SFC: Goes through #9.

LAF: In some calendars, eras can be implied. In some cases, in order for the date to be understandable for people, you have to mention the era. This is the case for the ordinary gregorian calendar. There are many situations where within the same locale, you might have to change the reckoning rules. Maybe we shouldn’t mix up the two IDs. What happens today is that most people say that we need only one reckoning system to set the date in a rather precise and straightforward way, thanks to ISO 8601. But in many historic applications, you’ll find people saying that they want to express historical dates in a modern way.

SFC: what is a sub-era?

LAF: a sub-era is when you don’t change the reckoning rules but you change the way you write the date. For instance, if you mention a date in the 30s, it could be misunderstood and therefore you would probably have to include additional information. It’s not a new era, it’s just expressed like that to avoid the ambiguity.

SFC: So Spain and Italy have the same change date. Would there be a difference in whether the era code gets displayed between languages/regions, or is it only dependent on the calendar system?

LAF: It is mainly for users speaking other languages in a region. For example, a Spanish reader interacting with English dates would want to know whether they are in old or new system.

SFC: Spanish readers living contemporaneously with the change date might have needed this disambiguation, but Spanish readers living today probably are roughly equivalent with English readers with regard to the context in which they need the disambiguation.
