# 2026-03-19 ECMA-402 Meeting

## Logistics

### Attendees

- Shane Carr - Google i18n (SFC), Co-Moderator
- Ben Allen - Igalia (BAN)
- Eemeli Aro - Mozilla (EAO)
- Louis-Aimé de Fouquières - Invited Expert (LAF)
- Jesse Alama - Igalia (JMN)
- Yusuke Suzuki - Apple (YSZ)
- Richard Gibson - OpenJS Foundation (RGN)
- Joshua S. Choi (JSC)

### Standing items

- [Discussion Board](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/projects/2)
- [Status Wiki](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/wiki/Proposal-and-PR-Progress-Tracking) -- please update!
- [Abbreviations](https://github.com/tc39/notes/blob/master/delegates.txt)
- [MDN Tracking](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402-mdn)
- [Meeting Calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=unicode.org_nubvqveeeol570uuu7kri513vc%40group.calendar.google.com)
- [Matrix](https://matrix.to/#/#tc39-ecma402:matrix.org)

## Status Updates

(skipped due to time constraints and no upcoming TC39 plenary)

## Proposals and Discussion Topics

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/projects/2

### Precision when rendering very small values as zero #15

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-keep-trailing-zeros/issues/15

EAO: Weird part of this that wasn’t covered by TG1, where values like 1.2e-5 were discussed. How to render values ilke 1.2e-100?

SFC: The string digits are retained unless maximumFractionDigits overwrites them. maximumFractionDigits can cause string digits to be removed.

"1.5000" mxFd 3 ⇒ "1.500"

"0.0010" mxFd 3 ⇒ "0.001"

"0.0001" mxFd 3 ⇒ ???

RGN: It should be "0.000". It was issue #15

EAO: only time we have behavior we want to change is when notation: scientific or notation: engineering. Case presented in the first coment

SFC: No decision on that?

RGN: TG1 said resolve as requested

SFC: They did? I recall this being a discussion we need to continue because this is not behavior that makes sense. This proposal is not about leading zeroes, but instead trailing zeroes.

RGN: Resolve as requested is taken directly from meeting notes

SFC: That’s not the conclusion I recall having an agreement to. I personally would have not agreed to that.

EAO: I voiced that out as a conclusion at the end of the whole session, IIRC.

RGN: That’s what it looks like

SFC: I didn’t understand that meant retain leading zeroes in this case. I thought it meant “bring back to tg2 and discuss”, otherwise this is not an agenda item. 

EAO: Correct, we have direction from TG1 for how to handle this. However, because we’re talking about and only about when formatting a representing a value that is zero. In that case these can be considered either trailing or leading zeroes – both or neither is valid.

SFC: I see the logic that leads to this conclusion. The one I’d prefer is to treat them as leading zeroes and format as just a single zero, because there are no sig digits anymore

RGN: This is not a matter of sig digits, it’s fraction digits. It may or may not be significant, but it’s definitely fractional. 

SFC: Zeroes are either leading or trailing, and in no circumstance do we retain leading digits

RGN: I don’t think you can say they are either leading or trailing when we only have zeroes

EAO: If we have something like 0.00, it’s invalid to consider last digit as leading zero

SFC: If the input is 0.00, those are all significant zeroes. But that’s not what the input is

EAO: In order for this to be part of a case that we’re considering, the input needs to be like 0.0012

SFC: Yes, and that’s a significantly different number. 0.00 is three sig digits, 0.0012 is two sig digits

RGN: But this isn’t sig digits, it’s fraction digits

SFC: But they have an equivalence class

RGN: No, they don’t

SFC: 0.00012 has five fraction digits, 2 sig digits. When we apply rounding we revert to 0, since there are no sig digits left.

EAO: Are you here attempting to get consensus from TG2 to overturn a direct suggestion or instruction from TG1 on how to proceed

SFC: I’m seeking to have the discussion that I thought TG1 was telling us to make.

EAO: Then I don’t think this is the right forum for this, but you probably ought to review the notes. I don’t see this as a TG2 matter at the moment

SFC: If the notes say one thing - I thought proceed as described meant the previous discussion – that’s at best an unclear conclusion from TG1, procedurally we should bring back a pull request where we talk about something concrete

RGN: Enter into the record a direct quote from the notes: “Issue #15 should be resolved with a change as requested”.

SFC: Great. I still don’t know what “change as requested” means. I had made a comment two rows above that in the notes requesting a change for issue 15. This is why we should not resolve issues in TG1 without having actual PRs. That’s not how I interpret that quote

RGN: Your comment two rows up is not about 15 at all

EAO: Your comment is about 17.

SFC: I’d have to open those notes up. 

RGN: Given disagreement about the conclusion from TG1, it seems like this discussion is going to happen whether we want it to or not. The question is should it be here and now, or on the PR, or later in the meeting?

SFC: Probably should be on the numerics call agenda

EAO: It would be good if you could re-present your position on this on issue 15

###  Fallback logic for existing, non-protocol implementing, object parameters #5

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-unit-protocol/issues/5

EAO: Too eagerly attempting to apply the protocol. If calling fallback on that object, cast to primitive and format. With the proposal’s current spec text, it would be looking for a .value accessor that wouldn’t exist there at all, which is problematic. I think the protocol should only be triggered if the object being formatted is an object, with value property, with number, bigint, or string. [ ]. With these restrictions it is unlikely that this will get triggered accidentally by anything being used, or if it is it would give you the behavior you want out of it. Works with Amount spec text as currently proposed

SFC: You can’t have .unit with undefined value. You can have a null value.

EAO: But you can test whether a value is present on an object. That property can have an undefined value, right?

SFC: I’m not sure – this is a question for RGN. Not sure we want to draw a distinction between “property has undefined value” and “property is not present on object”. We get value and check what it is, if it’s undefined property doesn’t exist. Is it possible to create an object that has own property with property value undefined?

RGN: Trivially so. What is the circumstance here?

SFC: In terms of order of operations, it sounds like EAO is proposing that we use the protocol – first we check if the object has these two properties, if we do we use the protocol, else fall back to old behavior. EAO is proposing that we use hasOwnProperty to determine that it has the property. Which is differently from what we do, we read [  ]

RGN: And Amount will not have own properties, because it’s on the prototype.

EAO: I was thinking more .value in object, and .unit in object.

RGN: Just that they actually exist somewhere in the object + prototype chain

EAO: I would be fine with being okay for an undefined value. I’d be fine with .unit to have a string or a null value. Just need to change Amount to match the protocol. 

RGN: Option 2 is that – Amount never has an undefined unit or value

SFC: Let's write out the options

1. Check prototype chain for `unit` field (like the `in` keyword)
2. Read the `unit` field; require it to not be undefined (null OK)

These are sub-options of a behavior that checks an object first to see if it is a protocol object. If it is not a protocol object, fall back to toPrimitive.

SFC: If the properties don't exist, we don't use toPrimitive at all, correct?

EAO: Correct

SFC: Are both options okay?

EAO: Yes; Mild preference for #1, better match in Amount constructed without a unit, .unit would be undefined rather than null. If preference to not introduce a dependency behavior on .unit called specifically on undefined then second option the one to go with. First checking that it has a .value, and that the value is a Number, BigInt, or string

RGN: I share that preference. Have to refine it a little more to come to firm sense, but I’m fine with it.

JMN: Do we want to do a check for what is in the unit string?

JMN: Value string. But also .unit string – it could be empty string?

RGN: Treat as object. We’re no longer going to do the primitive treatment.

EAO: I think what JMN is asking is that before applying the protocol, do we for example validate that the .value is a numeric string, or that .unit is an empty string

RGN: I don't think we would be doing validation to decide which branch

SFC: I agree with that. Couple comments: I think doing the simpler check for whether we use toPrimitive or unit protocol is better, I don’t think we should do any additional validation, checking for properties existing is about the extent of the sniffing I’d like to do. As far as .unit: undefined vs .unit: null, if we want to allow:

```
.format({ value: 123 })
```

EAO: No.

SFC: initial thought is that it would be okay, and my – my initial thinking is we check for the .value field, and if it’s not null we use that code path, the existence of .unit doesn’t mean we use the unit protocol. Open to being more strict.

RGN: What’s special about that check is that it has property rather than != to undefined. As proposed above. We don’t care if the value of property .value is undefined or not, we don’t care about the value of .unit is undefined, we just care if they exist. 

EAO: Looser than what I’ve proposed, probably fine in that .unit in particular is there

RGN: What additional constraints are you proposing?

EAO: Checking the type – the .value is string, number, or BigInt, .unit is undefined or a string

SFC: I think – I think we should go to – try to do just hasProperty or none, undefined check, whatever we decide on the two fields, we should only do something stricter if it’s not webcompat. I want – we already allow Number, if you pass in Number to the .format function for legacy reasons we call .toPrimitive and toString on it, meaning we can pass in a custom numeric type. I want to have anything you can pass to the .format function and use it for the .value field. It might not be a number, bigint, string, may be a user type that supports the existing protocol (toPrimitive, toString)

EAO: I agree

RGN: One thing to be careful about – in the notes – traversing the prototype chain to look for these  once. What I mean is hasProperty returns a boolean, whereas what we need is to come back with a property descriptor – a boolean and a value, and I don’t want to do two traversals to get them.

SFC: That makes sense

RGN: I think there’s no convenient shorthand operation that already exists, meaning we have to create it, meaning it will exist in 402. But we shouldn’t first do a hasProperty check that dives down the prototype chain, and then a separate get that also dives down the protocol chain. So we need something that says “here’s a descriptor” or “here’s a boolean and a value”

SFC: My feeling here is that we already have the get operation that we use in Temporal, what we’re basically doing is we want to make a new version of the get operation that returns undefined whether or not the property exists, we need a new one that returns: doesn’t exist, exists but undefined value, or exists and has a non-undefined value. I’m hesitant to add a new version fo that operation, since it raises questions about whether we use it elsewhere or just doing a prototype check. Nice thing about sniffing for null is we use the extant get function. I don’t see a new reason to not make a new version of the get function, but it’s a bigger chance than I have in mind.

RGN: Coming to it with the priority of constituencies in mind, it might be cumbersome to invent new machinery or do surgery on the extant machinery, but from a user perspective having a property check without redundant prototype traversal is what we want.

## Sequence unit formatting #398

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/398

SFC: Reason I put this back on the agenda – this has been an issue that’s been sitting for a while. Got comments in TG1 from WH that we should try to solve sequence unit formatting problem in Amount proposal, since if we don’t have sequence unit formatting to be designed before we even get Stage 2 on Amount, because it’s fundamental to how we do unit conversion. We haven’t discussed this since 2023. We should do something – do I have any examples here? A lot of this predates even the CLDR standard, since CLDR allows and infix. This comment from Rafael has example using -and-and infix, which is what CLDR implements. I think we should support -and- infix. Question: is, when using -and-, is it indexed based on largest unit, smallest unit. I propose doing what CLDR does, which is index on largest unit.  Procedurally I want to put this on the TG1 agenda and ask for stage 2 directly, and it is part of the unit proposal, so I want to split it into its own proposal and ask for stage 2 next plenary, resolving WH’s concern.

EAO: I think we ought to support compound units like this. Given how identifiers structure we currently use is a subset of CLDR, the logical choice is for us to use [ ] what they are using. It’s a separate proposal from Amount, and clearly that’s just a 402 or TG2 proposal we’re talking about here. I would be interested in – I haven’t looked into how ICU / ICU4X does unit formatting like this, would be interesting to hear those example cases to consider, to see if they’re acceptable and workable to users, directly as the JS API for this as well. But we should look at other implementations than ICU/CLDR if there is possibility of more ergonomic solution. If we’re closely following ICU / CLDR, I recommend we follow closely what they do.

RGN: Interested in enumeration of relative benefits of what CLDR is doing now vs starting with smallest unit. I think I can guess, because foot-and-inch is not best example.Consider degree-arcminute-arcsecond, where there definitely are cases to clip off and switch to decimal representation in different places. You might want degrees with fractional degrees represented in decimal, vs degrees in minutes with fractional minutes in decimal, same for seconds. All of these share degree as largest unit but have different representations. Degree and minute would be ambiguous between latter two. Wondering if it’s been addressed in CLDR, and why they came down this way. Do we want to avoid future problems by going down this path now. But I’d like to know what the relative benefits of the alternate representation are.

SFC: A lot of this thread was written before CLDR had decided what to do, there are options here like “do we wnat to support the unit as a list” in JS, do we want to do a list of units instead of units with -and- infix, as far as question about when we format the value is that in terms of the value is that in terms of largest or smallest value in unit string, I think CLDR went with largest unit because mental model was the smaller units are an alternative to the fraction, so fi you remove -and-inch, you get 4.25, if you add -and-inch you still have the 4 but the .25 is expanded into 3 inches. You can imagine with degree/arcminute/arcsecond, it’s expanding the decimal into additional units. Alternate mental model, starting with smallest digit, is that all the operations we do are in terms of integers. One constraint that is true for all units under consideration is that the smallest unit is – if we index in terms of smaller units, we can always do a clean integer operation to get larger ones, if we do it the other way we have to do FP operations. Then we run into potentially having to specify FP behavior and rounding behavior, which is not great in JS. If we index in terms of smaller unit, we can just have clean integer operations. That is the main advantage re: indexing by smallest unit

RGN: So in that alternative model, we’d multiply .25 by 12 – if I understand correctly, the numbers would always correspond to whatever comes first

SFC: I think it could be smallest unit (determined by CLDR data)

```
.format({ value: 76.3, unit: "foot-and-inch" }) // "5 feet, 4.3 inches"
```

RGN: if it were unit: inch-and-foot, with inch first, that same input value would have distinct semantics. Wait, it’s not!

SFC: If it were inch-and-foot

```
.format({ value: 76.3, unit: "inch-and-foot" }) // "4.3 inches, 5 feet"
```

RGN: I misunderstood first example. You’re actually saying value should be represented in whatever the smallest unit is, regardless of the sequence of unit

SFC: Correct. I mentioned earlier is that a third way to do it is to have the first unit in the sequence be the index unit. Not a solution I prefer, but it’s an option.

EAO: I think this absolutely should be at the very least a stage 1 proposal, design space needs to be determined, don’t think we should jump to stage 2 specific solution by next meeting. My sense is that it might take some time to coalesce around one solution, whatever it turns out to be

SFC: Hoping to come back here and continue to have this on the agenda for a while, we have three tg2 meetings before next tg1, there’s time to discuss some of these design issues and at least come with a TG2 consensus

EAO: But before getting to stage 2, I would want to get an idea re: whatever CLDR is doing, are there design docs they went through to come up with this choice, see what other tools/libraries use for this. Not reinventing things here, there is prior art for how this is getting done, we should see that before choosing our solution

RGN: That makes a lot of sense

SFC: Yeah. Okay. I’m the best person to do that, I was involved with CLDR when they were exploring that space six years ago. Seven years ago.

## Quantitative criteria for accepting more unit usages #1047

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/1047

SFC: Background: I had given a presentation on Energy Units, let me give it here so we’re all on same page. Walking through these slides, I’ve already given them to TG1 but helpful to give them here.

SFC: Currently 402 contains 45 units of measurements, chosen based on TG2 judgment back in 2019. Some because of DurationFormat, decided to include basic volume units, percent because of NumberFormat, bit and bytes units because important to users. Also degree because a delegate asked nicely? No evidence for why.  Rest of units motivated by usage: area-land, duration-music-track/ tv-program, length, length-road, length-rainfall, mass-person, temperature, volume-vehicle-fuel. Not kelvin for temperature, usages supported are for weather and pool, not scientific. 

SFC: When we add new units, we should have a high bar. Intl Energy Units supports units for use cases like [ ] missed slide. Not supporting scientific applications, utility-scale energy measurements, automotive/heavy industry uses, natural gas usage…

SFC: JS Choi (JSC) in TG1 meeting asked question: what are the criteria for which usages to support / which not to support. I think the usages we support are ones where we have strong signal from community that they’re useful for us to support. Not a checklist for “what do we support/not support.” Question: are there explicit criteria we want to consider? One might be “number of web sites”, however you measure that. So needs to be x percent of websites. Could be based on google trends. We could look at corpus. We could get a feed from facebook or X, look at rate at which these occur in feed of data. Number of different quantitative approaches to take. Might be a bit noisy. Or we could just base on direct developer input, a little more qualitative rather than quantitative. Perhaps that’s the right approach, or perhaps more quantitative. Quantitative method might block out methods we consider useful. 

BAN: Criteria for type of unit we support might be more important than question on specific units

JSC: Re: categories of units, it struck me that when you showed slide w/ domains considered and their names, that it’s focused on specific use cases, but there’s going to be a lot of overlap between domains. For example: kilometer is not just used for roads. Yard is not just used for roads. If we’re going with a domain-based use-case approach, are you going to allow for overlap, or are they disjoint sets? If the only length units are length-road, are you going to exclude lengths that are in the same order of magnitude, but not used specifically for roads. If you’re going to go with domain-based use-case approach, are you going to allow for overlap between these use cases? So is this going to be a continuous process w/ developers raising it ad hoc, rather than proactively looking for domains based on quantitative usage or vibes. It struck me that mass-person – grams and kilograms aren’t just used for people. What is – what kind of bases are you using for creating these domains, if we’re going to go with a domain-based approach? I come from biomedical, every unit used in [ ], if you look at all dimensions used in those, all of those have strong use cases: kilocalorie, grams/kilograms, those kinds of domains, lots of overlap, all of them strongly motivated. Are those all going to be within our threshold for inclusion, outside our threshold for inclusion? If going for domain-based approach, how universal a scope and how universal / exclusive our domains are going to be?

SFC: More background: in this slide I have length-* and length-road. length-* abbreviates length usages that have significant domain overlap. If you don’t have a usage, there’s the default. Length-person there is a lot of overlap as you say. When I say we support length-person, that implies we also support anything that’s a subset. For example, snowfall is a subset of rainfall, so if you support length-rainfall, you automatically support length-snowfall. By supporting length-road we also support length-visibility. Pulled in mass-person because it’s a superset of al the other mass ones.

SFC: So the current proposal is intl energy units, we could also have intl health units

JSC: to clarify: are these domains, this is much more granular than I realized, are these actually exposed to developers in the API?

SFC: As of now we’re using these as a basis for determining which units to support for localized display. Also there’s the Amount proposal that could also expose these, that’s only Stage 1, soon to be Stage 2, not yet a thing that is finalized. But yes, eventually they would be exposed. In a world where we do expose these to users, my expectation is that we expose all usages that are subsets, because it’s extremely low-cost to do so

JSC: is there a reason to have dimensions at this level of granularity? But that helps clarify things. Other question still stands, regarding process. Sure, you can create the criteria you want, quantitative or qualitative, and probably should instead of just pointing to whatever’s currently in there and say “it should be like these”. But: is it going to be a continuous process? In a world where this reaches stage 4, is there a process for adding more, or would there be separate processes to take things like intl health units to stage 4? Not something to figure out at this moment, but must be figured out eventually

SFC: Assuming that everything would be a proposal, not necessarily going through the staging process. Proposal to add health units could be a normative PR, then that would be – that’s how we add numbering systems. I imagine we could get to a point where we use that lightweight process.

JSC: That’s useful. I know there’s people who would be interested in this in clinical informatics standards groups, and probably major vendors involved in patient-facing applications, like Apple and maybe Google, maybe the big electronic health record vendors. Health wouldn’t be one proposal, would be split into lots of subdomains. Maybe one of the biggest/most important general use cases for any localization of this sort. Plenty of health apps, diet apps, whatever. That’s very helpful though. Other question: proactive or reaction to developers ad hoc raising proposals. If people need kelvin – it looks like a slide excluded industry, for example, not sure if that’s going to be a general thing. Proactive do a survey, or react to developer request? 

SFC: Absolutely. This is a question that – I asked this a few meetings ago, are we okay with doing this intl energy units proposal based on enthusiastic community users, or step back and do intl unit v2, come up with criteria, proactively add them. Response from committee: we should do individually motivated proposals. A part of me wants to be proactive, other half is like, I’m motivated by users asking me to do things. I’m not very happy that this gives a bias toward web developers who know they have the ability to file an issue on github, don’t love that it gives an advantage to users who know to do that, but when users _do_ do that, it’s evidence that it’s motivated. It also unlocks collaboration opportunities. Developers enthusiastic about energy units, I’ve gotten them involved in – like, making these slides, because I asked what are examples of usages/use cases, they give us a lot, if we get to the point of doing a health units one, I’ll be asking you, J.S Choi, for examples of clinical apps that you’re thinking of. It’s beneficial to have stakeholders in the committee who collaborate. As of now we’re stil in individual proposals based on developer feedback.

BAN: We need domain experts  /subject matter experts for this.

JSC: It could be a good problem to have with a lot of people raising issues, but we don’t have to do that right away. The fact that we’re accepting energy indicates the nebulous criteria we already have. I certainly think health should be in there. You still need to think about in broad terms what criteria we’ll judge when a random person files an issue. If someone files stuff about weather, things like wind speed, air pressure, AQI, how would you judge those? Do it early or later? But it should be something you do broadly some time. When it comes to proposals, looks like you’re bundling them, or using intl energy units as a precedent, should also think process-wise do you want proposals to bundle together a lot of domains from same area (health, weather…) or separate proposals for each subdomain?

SFC: For second question, I think that what these proposals do is they enable certain types of apps to be written using intl as data source. The proposal should be – intl health units allows apple or samsung health to be written using web units. So “here’s all the units health apps need”, might cover different things in different places, and that’s fine. 

JSC: brings up sticky questions, all of these could be rabbitholes, to what degree do you stop a proposal at and leave for a followup is still a sticky question.

SFC: Kind of units needed for health app is not unbounded – like, you’re not asking for ilghtyears in a health app. That’s where we need the SMEs, though – there’s going to be some units that are in a grey area. Authors of this proposals highlighted units in the grey area that we’re leaving out for now, but could consider later. 

JSC: I imagine someone with solar panels or whatever might reach industrial-scale magnitudes. I am interested in eventually helping out with followup proposal for health-related units. I know there’s google people here, google has had patient-facing health applications in the past, not sure what the state of the art is. If you know anyone within google who might be interested, I’d be interested in meeting with them. I am interested in helping coordinate this. Maybe it would be worth – like, health and weather are things I know about, but waiting for someone to actually do it – I’m enthusiastic about weather, but I’m not a meteorologist. Are you asking for SMEs, or just interested people / enthusiastic developers

SFC: My understanding is that there are developers making apps with things on this slide. That’s the level of subject matter expertise, not PhDs in energy, motivated by developers who build these dashboards. That’s the level of expertise that would be helpful. Someone adjacent to that field with a sufficient background could tell us what’s motivated. Not a hard requirement that we have someone who’s built an energy or health app. “If I were building a weather app these are the units I need and this is why” would be sufficient.

JSC: That’s helpful. I think it sounds like any enthusiastic user who’s willing to put in the legwork of surveying real-world interfaces even without deep subject matter experts. But with health it’s higher-stakes, SMEs like me are necessary. I’m excited where these proposals go (intl energy units and Amount) and I’d love to stay in touch, I’ll try to make these meetings as often as possible because it is huge on the web.

## Year precision #10

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-eradisplay/issues/10

SFC: Latest issue is from 2024. Based on observation that currently intl era display proposal has options for just era – never, always, auto. And the question is whether we should also include two-digit years as part of this question. As an example “auto”, “full”, “withEra”, “withoutEra”, “withImpliedEra” are potential year options. We’ve already implemented this in ICU4X. We have Auto, Full, WithEra, and NoEra in ICU4x. We could use this as a basis for the proposal, and also tell whether we use a 2-digit or 4-digit year. 

ICU4X implements this:

https://unicode-org.github.io/icu4x/rustdoc/icu/datetime/options/enum.YearStyle.html

SFC: In november of 2024 we ahd a discussion on this subject. Looks like conclusion is that it’s good to move forward with centuries also handled by this, look for more options. LAF followed up a month later, wanting to add new “numeric” option. Good news with that option is that Temporal has an equivalent of this now – the year field in Temporal has the behavior of “numeric”. 

``` 
Temporal.PlainDate.from("-000001-01-01").withCalendar("gregory").eraYear
// 2
Temporal.PlainDate.from("-000001-01-01").withCalendar("gregory").year
// -1
Temporal.PlainDate.from("-000001-01-01").withCalendar("gregory").era
// "bce"
```

So the question is whether we want to support the "numeric" option.

LAF:  Our use cases in history – the “numeric” option was enforced by a French astronomer Cassini in the 18th century. It is easier to count that way for leap years and so on, counting before beginning. It might happen in certain cases you’d like to use the backward counting system (B.C.E. etc), and in some cases you’d prefer to count in a numeric way. 

RGN: This makes sense to me. Especially with Temporal, we’ve already paved the road that this is walking down. 

SFC: One interesting question: is “numeric” the right name? Maybe it is. Internally Temporal calls it the arithmetic year and CLDR calls it the extended year. Calling it numeric year style makes sense, we use it in many other places in DateTimeFormat API. 

LAF: Algebraic?

RGN: I would exclude “extended”, that’s already claimed by ISO 8601 for referring to years with more than four digits.

SFC: I like algebraic. 

RGN: Algebraic to me seems like an overly broad generalization of arithmetic

LAF: Yes

RGN: No objection to either of those. “Numeric” seems not quite right though.

LAF: I understand

SFC: Issue I’ve had with arithmetic is that in terms of language, arithmetic is more like a noun or a verb, not an adjective. (stress on second syllable rather than first). I like algebraic, because it really sounds like an adjective to me.

RGN: In this case, “linear” would also be possible

SFC: Another we talked about was “monotonic” 

LAF: I don’t object

SFC: All names seem okay, let’s list them, in order of when they were suggested

1. numeric
2. algebraic
3. extended
4. arithmetic
5. linear
6. monotonic

SFC: My current preference is roughly 2 > 5 > 1 > 6 > 4 >> 3

RGN: {2, 4, 5, 6} > 1 >> 3 (I object to 3)

LAF: Same order as SFC… 2, 5, 1, 4. For the others I'm not a great fan. 

BAN: Only objection to 2 so far is that it’s broader than arithmetic. But if we agree this is all appropriate, then being too broad isnt a problem?

SFC: If the use case is for astronomers to do math, it's more clear that “algebraic” means “this is something to do math on”

RGN: Would is also apply to linear vs arithmetic, in the same way?

SFC: Linear seems more like a scientific-sounding term, that also conveys the correct message (i.e. “you do math on this.”)

RGN: Reasons why you don’t like arithmetic are addressed by both algebraic and linear. I don’t think we need to go much farther here: we have a descend list of options, and two that no one has any objections to. 

SFC: Previously I’ve said that we should have an implementation before advancing this proposal, now we have that implementation. Shouldn’t be too hard to add yearStyle: linear or yearStyle: algebraic in ICU4X. 

## Data-driven approach #9

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-eradisplay/issues/9

SFC: This is a spec issue [goes into spec]. There’s better places to put this now. We have a better solution now. 

LAF: This could be extended, actually. With this idea, if you want a 2-digit [something] presentation, and the date is beyond the century, you should represent it by four digits. It could be internalized. I think you discussed that with CLDR. It was a former discussion in another issue. Or this is a reason why you made a decision. 

SFC: I think it should be a data-driven approach, not too hard for eras, for Japanese the era should always be shown in auto mode, we never elide the Japanese era, that’s the answer we came up with there. Given that in Japanese we always display it, for eras we could just hard-code the year boundaries, I can show what we do in ICU4X. We have a two-layer thing here, and there’s also year ambiguity. For gregoria, we implemented it by – we have this enum called YearAmbiguity, and we have EraAndCenturyRequired for before 1000, and CenturyRequired but not era between 1000 and 1949, with 1950-2049 unambiguous. I don’t like that you have to update your browser to get new years, it’s fine with these days because people are likely to update their browsers at least once every 20 years, a little hard to implement in terms of “what is the current date?”, we need to in the API somewhere let the client inject the current date and then use that, right now ICU4X implementation is stateless/doesn’t take further input, need to add plumbing to inject current date. 

https://github.com/unicode-org/icu4x/blob/8746af8abccbf1ba8b554a385de01952ff04895a/components/calendar/src/cal/gregorian.rs#L41

RGN: _Is_ that a thing we want? That kind of variability? In ECMA-262 proper, the setYear and getYear methods on Dates are discouraged, regardless they’re hard-coded with cutoff of 1900, I don’t know we should reintroduce variability based on what the current clock says, much prefer hard cutoffs and avoid ambiguous shortenings. 

SFC: Are you okay with the code we use to determining when to use 2 digit years changes over time? 

RGN: I’d prefer not, but if that happens then so be it.

SFC: Other way to do it: check current date, then check three decades back and three forward, something like that, when determining when to display century

RGN: That sounds worse to me

LAF: Maybe introduce constant that change over time. Could implemented by constants that are set at [ bad sound, unclear]. You don’t ask for the current date, but your main constants are initialized at launching of browser. When you set a new version of CLDR or something like that.

SFC: Indexed to version of CLDR makes sense. Actually, that’s a good question: one option is that ECMAScript defines the cutoffs, other is that we defer to CLDR. When you update your browser, you use whatever the cutoffs are in that version of CLDR. RGN, do you have a preference?

RGN: ECMAScript listing the cutoffs would come with the expectation that the cutoffs don’t change. There will be resistance to spec changes that adjust them. So only if we’re comfortable with locking it in should we pursue that approach.

SFC: Proposed conclusion: we should not use current date to determine whether to display era or century, eras easy, for japanese we always display eras. For centuries we have language that loads it from locale data, which only changes by browser versions, see locale data synced to browser version PR, language from locale data saying “these are what the cutoffs are”, cutoffs allowed to change when you update the browser. 

SFC: Another question: we need to update this proposal, hasn’t changed in six years, is this something where LAF is interested, or I should work on the spec, or BAN? 

SFC: I think this proposal was ahead of its time, and now it is is time. 

LAF: Sometimes you have to wait for a thing to be in better shape. 

---

SFC: One last reminder: if anyone wants to join an in-person ECMA-402 meeting in Europe, please reply in thread. We could meet in May, June, or October. If that is an interest, please reply to that email thread. In-person TG1 meeting, where there’ll be a lot more people. If you’re coming to in-person TG1 in Amsterdam in May, that is an option, maybe couple it with UTC workshop in Nancy, France in October, or the W3C meeting in Dublin, or web engines meeting in A Coruna, Spain. 
