Attendees:

	Daniel Ehrenberg
	Sathya Gunasekaran
	Shane Carr
	Nebojska Cira
	Eemeli Aro

September 20th, 2018, 16:00 UTC

Contact Daniel Ehrenberg (littledan@igalia.com) for the link to the Google Hangouts link.

1. Bugs/PRs against ECMA-402
    1. [Duplicate tags](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/262)? [ICU issue](https://unicode-org.atlassian.net/browse/ICU-20140)
        1. NC: We should throw
        2. DE: The specification allows this; should we leave things as is?
        3. SG: I'm OK with either way; the bigger problem is letting ICU be used for parsing, so if this is fixed in ICU it's good
        4. NC: Is the interpretation unambiguous?
        5. DE: Yes, it takes the last one
        6. NC: OK, resolved that we will not throw
        7. JS: ICU issue is fixed. 
2. Stage 3 APIs
    1. [Intl.Locale](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale)
        1. How are implementations coming?
            1. New CharaCore [implementation](https://github.com/Microsoft/ChakraCore/pull/5675)!
        2. Any issues with testing? (Should be pretty complete)
            1. Tests to upstream from ChakraCore--open spec questions?
            2. SG: I filed a bunch of bugs, and they fixed them, so they look great now.
        3. Does ICU work well for backing an Intl.Locale implementation?
            1. SG: ICU doesn't let you validate subtags. This is what V8 is facing now. SpiderMonkey handles this with its own parser. Not sure how ChakraCore does it.
            2. NC: ICU also has length limitations, and in the next ICU push, Fredrick removed the length limitation
            3. SC: Yes, now you can have a subtag as long as you want to have. There's a number of other APIs Fredrick added.
            4. NC: He simplified iteration over key-values. We still have some bugs in Locale, but Frank is working on it, and will be fixing bugs as we discover them
        4. Other Intl.Locale issues?
    2. [Intl.RelativeTimeFormat](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-relative-time)
        1. PRs out for review
            1. None
        2. How are implementations coming?
            1. [underlying ICU API](https://unicode-org.atlassian.net/browse/ICU-13256)
            2. NC: Frank is going to look into implementing the ICU API
            3. FB: He is going to do this, but the ListFormat API is higher priority, since there is a full [workaround for RelativeTimeFormat](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/v8/src/objects/js-relative-time-format.cc?q=js-relative&sq=package:chromium&g=0&l=399).
            4. JW: I'll take a look at the workaround
            5. DE: Maybe with this, we can get to Stage 4 in November
            6. JW: Oh, this is using the underlying C++ API directly… this is something we try to avoid, but we can do it temporarily. We have other places we've done similar things for.
        3. Any issues with testing? (Substantial test262 tests landed recently)
            1. SG: Looks fine, V8 passes all the tests, tests have been great. We are looking into shipping RelativeTimeFormat in Chrome 71, that's the goal for now.
            2. NC: Are we adding counters for all the APIs in Chrome?
            3. SG: That's the plan; Frank will work on it when he's back.
        4. Other Intl.RelativeTimeFormat issues?
    3. [Intl.ListFormat](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-list-format)
        1. Issues
            1. [Handling partial support of options in data files](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-list-format/issues/16)
                1. Yes, throw
        2. How are implementations coming?
            1. Thanks for the [ICU API](https://unicode-org.atlassian.net/browse/ICU-13754) for Intl.ListFormat.prototype.formatToParts, Frank Tang!
            2. NC: Yes, the ICU code is a bit complex here, and Markus is working through this.
            3. SC: A weird dependency issue was recently fixed. Now the ListFormat API is landed in C++. C should be simple.
            4. DE: And the C one?
            5. SC: I'm not sure; I haven't seen work on it. Now it should be easy to add.
            6. SG: This should go quickly in V8. We won't have the ICU changes in until we branch for 71, so we hope to ship in 72 (mid-November)
            7. JW: Andre wrote some patches a month ago; some people looked at them and thought they were decent, but I haven't gone deeply into it. It's described as a first draft.
            8. NC: Are you going to use the ICU draft API?
            9. JW: Maybe?
            10. NC: Risky because it's a draft, but it won't go away.
            11. JW: Right now, it's using the C++ API manually. There is a fallback mechanism using list_format_open, not sure why. Seems to be largely using stable APIs. formatToParts is not implemented yet
        3. SG: Spec, tests look fine
    4. [Intl.Segmenter](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-segmenter)
        1. Any thoughts, reviews, implementations?
            1. NC: Jungshik is interested in this, but his other work is interrupting him. But if he's busy, someone in my group should look at it more.
            2. DE: I'll talk with the W3C i18n WG about this
3. Stage 2 proposals
    1. Congratulations on the results at TC39!
    2. [Intl.NumberFormat Unified Feature Proposal](https://github.com/sffc/proposal-unified-intl-numberformat)
        1. SC: I saw a few people at the Unicode Conference who were excited about this feature, especially unit formatting. In Q4, that's when I want to prioritize the implementation of this feature in V8. I haven't done a lot more work on this feature since that last time. I've been going to the Unicode conference and working on ICU features in advance of their feature freeze. Now that ICU is getting out the door, this is what I want to continue looking at, getting this implemented in V8. That's my understanding of what the next step is for Stage 3, that we need an implementation.
        2. DE: Actually there's no implementation requirement; a polyfill would be nice, but it's not a requirement.
        3. NC: A polyfill would be throwaway work, and more work than implementing it in C++
        4. SC: But there could be value for the community. Would it be better to make a low-quality polyfill, e.g., with hard-coded English data, or no polyfill at all?
        5. DE: I don't see the point of a low-quality polyfill, but a high-quality polyfill, maybe based on Globalize.js could be nice
        6. Eemeli: If there's no polyfill, adoption could be difficult.
        7. SC: Maybe an approach to the polyfill would be a wrapper around Globalize, to use Intl if available, otherwise 
        8. NC: What would be the purpose of the polyfill?
        9. SG: To increase adoption. Developers will not use it if it's Chrome-only.
        10. SC: It would take 5 years for people to use it if we don't have a polyfill, even if all new browsers implement it
        11. Eemeli: Even a bad, English-only polyfill is better than no polyfill at all.
        12. SC: I wanted to go to the Globalize presentation, but it was at the same time as my presentation, so I couldn't go to it
        13. NC: It was very, very high-level
        14. [https://github.com/sffc/proposal-unified-intl-numberformat/issues/16](https://github.com/sffc/proposal-unified-intl-numberformat/issues/16)
            1. DE: Should we throw exceptions more eagerly?
            2. NC: The exception matrix gets very complicated
            3. Eemeli: I don't remember my last comment's motivation
            4. SC: You leave the currency in the options bag, and don't expect to be reading it
            5. Eemeli: That makes sense.
            6. SC: You could include extra, unrelated properties, and they'll be ignored. Why do something different here? The idea is, instead, you just read the fields you need, and ignore the irrelevant ones.
            7. NC: And combinations are going to increase the code complexity. "Number style and currency style go together, but short currency style…" More and more bugs about combinations not making sense.
            8. SC: This should be pretty obvious how to debug in practice
            9. NC: We could format currency if we provide currency
            10. DE: We discussed that a while ago, Shane proposed it, and we rejected it.
            11. SC: Yes, we decided to keep the style attribute. ICU does the approach where the existence of the setting means to format currency. Both approaches have their merits. The reason we voted against it was (a) backwards compatibility (b) Eemeli's comment that you might have a locale options bag with a currency, that doesn't always indicate that you want the currency. (a) was the driving concern, and (b) was the legitimate use case that drove things forward.
            12. Conclusion: Keep things as is
            13. SC: Did this come up otherwise?
            14. DE: Decorators have an analogous exception
        15. SC: Maybe raise this at TC39. I don't plan to attend TC39 next week, but I do plan to attend the one in November. I plan to propose this for Stage 3 then.
        16. DE: We'll ask for Stage 3 reviewers at the next meeting; thanks for the reminder. Should we start developing tests in a branch, since the spec is still stable?
        17. SG: Yeah, sounds good to me if that's OK with test262 maintainers
    3. [formatRange/formatRangeToParts](https://github.com/fabalbon/proposal-intl-DateTimeFormat-formatRange) (Felipe)
        1. FB: Not many updates since last meeting. The most important one is to propose and implement an API for FieldPositionIterator in ICU, in DateTimeFormat. That is probably required in order to go to Stage 3, so when it gets to Stage 3, implementers can get started. Right now, my focus is that.
        2. NC: In November, we won't have Stage 3 readiness.
        3. DE: I haven't seen this as a requirement. Do we need to be really strict with sequencing?
        4. SG: I don't see the point in advancing to Stage 3 until it's implementable with ICU completed.
        5. FB: I don't think this will be complete until January
        6. SC: I don't see the difference between being in trunk and being in a release; ChakraCore will need wait for Stable anyway, which takes a year.
        7. SG: I'm OK with it going to Stage 3 once it's landed in trunk; it doesn't need to be in a release.
        8. SC: For new field position APIs, we missed the boat on ListFormatter, but for other field position APIs, e.g., for NumberFormatter, it's nice since it allows for cheap iteration over all fields ,without reformatting the number each time or using a field position iterator. Mark and I were thinking of having a standard for field positions which has a helper object that gets returned. [https://unicode-org.atlassian.net/browse/ICU-20138](https://unicode-org.atlassian.net/browse/ICU-20138) . When you're working on the implementation, just look at that.
        9. DE: Was the estimate of January based on ICU's release schedule?
        10. FB: No, about things pending in the proposal as well as implementing the API
        11. DE: OK, January for Stage 3 sounds like a good plan.
        12. DE: Is this specification stable enough to have tests written?
        13. FB: First, we need to resolve some spec questions. I need to continue working on those; I'm not sure at what point to start writing tests. We can get back to the question next meeting.
        14. SC: For the range collapse one, that's landed for number range formatter, I landed that, when we were talking about range collapse, in ICU 63, NumberRangeFormatter. It's basically what we discussed previously. That could be a model. One issue about range collapse is that the value for range collapse might want to be locale-specific: Some locales may always repeat the month, and other locales may collapse the month. This may be specified by the user or the locale. We don't have locale data for this. For number formatting, we use a heuristic which is locale-independent. Heuristics are OK to start, and then people complain about it being broken, and then you fix what's broken.
    4. Next steps?
4. Newer proposals
    1. [dateStyle/timeStyle](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-ecma402-datetime-style) (Stage 1)
        1. Interest in this feature for applications?
            1. NC: This is something we discussed. It would be easy to add, and we just didn't.
            2. DE: Why not?
            3. NC: In the initial DateTimeFormat, we were discussing precanned sizes. There were differences between the ICU and MS version. Now that we're on the same engine, we could reintroduce it.
            4. NC: The only worry for this is what "short" means and how it's implemented in Chrome, Firefox, etc. That's true for any sort of formatting. It's a shortcut for developers. Were there requests for this?
            5. DE: At least Mozilla-internal, and Globalize.js
            6. NC: OK, this should be a quick implementation for us
        2. Specification questions
            1. [Consider making BestFormatForStyle more specific](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-ecma402-datetime-style/issues/3)
                1. DE: Should we leave things undefined, or bake in the CLDR-style schema?
                2. NC: CLDR seems fine
                3. SC: Why use vague?
                4. DE: OS settings? But this could be done better otherwise
                5. FB: What would be more specific?
                6. DE: We'd use ICU's fields, dateStyle, timeStyle and dateTimeStyle. I wasn't sure which style to choose.
                7. NC: We'll need to look into this
            2. [Applying settings from the OS](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-ecma402-datetime-style/issues/4)
                1. NC: We don't currently have a way to override things and read OS settings in Chrome, on various platforms. I think this a better question about system overrides for all the APIs. Sathya, do you have any idea of V8 reading system settings from the OS?
                2. SG: I wonder if this is something Chrome could give V8 through an API, but let me look into this more.
                3. NC: I'm not sure if we have a good idea about OS overrides. We could add them as a parameters, so someone else has to deal with it, passing in information in a context field. Or we could force V8 or SpiderMonkey to read information from the OS. I guess ChakraCore would have an easier time. It needs research on our end.
                4. SC: Related: [https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/210](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/210) . This could be useful for allowing implementations to choose if they want to use the default source or plug in some external service; it could also be used for data overrides. The use case that I was originally thinking was the data as a service use case, where the latest and greatest data is served from some API endpoint, some CDN, and you plug that into your Intl API somehow. Maybe this kind of thing could be used for OS overrides.
                5. DE: OK, this all seems really complicated. Maybe we should leave OS overrides as a follow-on, and define things as sort of coming from CLDR for now
                6. SC: That'd layer well with the data-driven approach.
            3. [Consider error checking for using dateStyle/timeStyle together with other options](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-ecma402-datetime-style/issues/2)
                1. DE: Don't throw these errors, right?
                2. NC: If you specify timeStyle: short, dateStyle: medium and dateTimeStyle: long, what will you take?
                3. DE: There's no contradiction there. dateTimeStyle is the connector
                4. Eemeli: The naming of the dateTimeStyle is confusing; I wouldn't expect that to be the connector
                5. DE: So, maybe we should follow the ICU approach and not expose a direct way to set the dateTimeStyle?
                6. NC: Yeah
                7. SC: I wouldn't go on the assumption that ICU is perfect with respect to these APIs. A lot of time it takes some studying of these use cases and studying how people use these existing APIs to get a picture of what's actually important. When I was working on number formatting, I studied over 100 callsites to figure out what people were using and what combinations/hacks were important. Maybe a similar analysis is useful here; we could change ICU to expose more.
                8. NC: We shouldn't just say that whatever is in the proposal is good; we should take a close look at naming, etc.
        3. Implementation interest?
            1. NC: Yes
        4. Plan for TC39? (November meeting?)
            1. No concerns
        5. Related proposal: [navigator.locale](https://github.com/whatwg/html/pull/3046)
            1. DE: This could be how we pass around the locale overrides
            2. NC: Weren't we talking about this being stored in some other structure, and Locale focuses on BCP47 parsing/processing?
            3. DE: Yes, but we didn't figure out how we actually do want to store these things.
    2. [DisplayNames](https://github.com/brawer/proposal-intl-displaynames)
        1. NC: The contributor has retired. I think we can pick this up between Frank, Felipe, etc. It's useful, carries lots of data, so it should be beneficial.
        2. [API shape issue](https://github.com/brawer/proposal-intl-displaynames/issues/4)
        3. [Other issues](https://github.com/brawer/proposal-intl-displaynames/issues)
    3. [Intl support for Temporal](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/254)
        1. Would anyone from this meeting be interested in joining the Date group call?
        2. SG: Anything we need before Stage 2 next meeting?
        3. DE: IMO no, we just need to work this out by Stage 3
5. Polyfills
    1. Evolve Globalize.js into an Intl polyfill? (Rafael Xaviers)
        1. DE: This could be really great for Intl adoption
        2. NC: They might make a Collator implementation in Globalize, using Intl
        3. SC: Wrappers can go in either direction, or both. I don't know if there's a reason that the Globalize.js API is better
        4. NC: I think it's more stable across implementations. Same results across all browsers, whereas you get slightly off things based on the browser.
        5. SC: I mean specifically the API itself, e.g., jQuery long had better ergonomics than the DOM, and eventually it added more things. But people still like using jQuery APIs better. Is this the situation because they are better? E.g., Moment.js has a cool-looking API that people might choose to use. Will people want to use Globalize that falls back to Intl, when Intl is available, or will it be more useful to make a polyfill for Intl based on Globalize?
        6. DE: The APIs look really similar; I don't think people will really prefer one over the other
        7. NC: I talked with someone using Intl; I don't think they are having problems.
        8. Eemeli: Presumably this group prefers Intl long-term, so shouldn't our preference be for polyfilling the intl API rather than the Globalize API, so then as time moves on, you can gradually reduce the amount of polyfill that you're using?
        9. SC: I agree with that. Although some people still use jQuery (e.g., me)
        10. Eemeli: But, new things tend to use DOM methods, or something which uses DOM underneath
        11. SC: My choice is, do I use Angular or jQuery, but maybe DOM directly if it's really small. But, in terms of Globalize, I agree that it's good, it also sounds like Rafael is on board, that Intl is the future and Globalize is a temporary intermediate step. So I think an Intl wrapper around Globalize is more useful than a Globalize wrapper around Intl.
        12. DE: So, would anyone be interested in collaborating on this project?
        13. SC: I'd be interested in doing this for the NumberFormat options. We could start with the Number polyfill and add more things to it in the future. It could be a standalone GitHub project, or could be one for every proposal. A common one could be good. Or it could even go into Globalize directly.
        14. Romulo: I'd be happy to help with this
6. Communication
    1. [Real-time communication channel](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/268)
        1. NC: Is it enough to just have GitHub and this meeting?
        2. SG: For asking questions, not just reporting bugs?
        3. DE: I'd be fine with bugs on GitHub
        4. SG: We might not need a permanent thing, where you need a tab open
        5. NC: IRC is great for Chrome with a build sheriff, etc, but it's not like everyone is involved all the time. Maybe we can just use an email thread or something.
        6. SG: FWIW there's already an IRC channel on freenode, #tc39-ecma402
        7. Eemeli: Actually a chat might dilute things, and these meetings are good; also IRC clients are pretty bad.
        8. SC: GitHub has a very clear record, whereas emails and chats get lost.
        9. SG: It's useful, also maybe good for new contributors
        10. Conclusion: Seems like we don't need a new channel, and everyone's encouraged to post questions on GitHub but people can use the IRC channel if they want
    2. Working with the W3C i18n WG -- who will be at TPAC?
    3. [https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1xmwZPjAAmT2D7PQSH_G9Y62PhPXSNDzsX38qVuv2upo/edit#slide=id.p](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1xmwZPjAAmT2D7PQSH_G9Y62PhPXSNDzsX38qVuv2upo/edit#slide=id.p) 
7. Future meetings
    1. Any topics to discuss at the next meeting?
    2. Is October 18, 2018 at 16:00 UTC a good next meeting time?
    3. NC: Let's have the November Intl meeting at Google on the Monday right before TC39. Morning is preferable
