# 2025-06-12 ECMA-402 Meeting

## Logistics

### Attendees

- Shane Carr - Google i18n (SFC), Co-Moderator
- Ujjwal Sharma - Igalia (USA), Co-Moderator
- Jesse Alama - Igalia (JMN)
- Henri Sivonen - Mozilla (HJS)
- Daniel Minor - Mozilla (DLM)
- Frank Yung-Fong Tang - Google i18n, V8 (FYT)
- Louis-Aimé de Fouquières - Invited Expert (LAF)
- Yusuke Suzuki - Apple (YSZ)
- Richard Gibson - OpenJS Foundation (RGN)
- Eemeli Aro - Mozilla (EAO)

### Standing items

- [Discussion Board](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/projects/2)
- [Status Wiki](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/wiki/Proposal-and-PR-Progress-Tracking) -- please update!
- [Abbreviations](https://github.com/tc39/notes/blob/master/delegates.txt)
- [MDN Tracking](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402-mdn)
- [Meeting Calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=unicode.org_nubvqveeeol570uuu7kri513vc%40group.calendar.google.com)
- [Matrix](https://matrix.to/#/#tc39-ecma402:matrix.org)

## Status Updates

### Updates from the Editors

USA: RGN isn’t here, I’ll do it. 3 editorial changes: (1) a change by Anba to fix variable markup/Oxford comma convention; (2) … (presents the other one, link/issue number needed); (3) duplicate variants.

SFC: Ready to go for Ecma GA?

USA: Yes, new version of spec was presented via Matrix. Looks good to me. Others, please do check it out. RGN, would you like to present something?

RGN: Not many changes in the last month. Nothing sticks out.

RGN: We landed Intl.Locale.prototype.variants!

### Updates from the MessageFormat Working Group

SFC: Few big open questions regarding formatting functions `:unit`, `:datetime` and `:percent`. No agreement but we hope to reach some soon. Concerns that have been raised here before. We don’t have the same impact as browsers are required to ship all data but they’re impactful to MF clients. The missing ingredient is an enthusiasm among other champions that check all the checkboxes we aren’t good at appreciating others’ perspective and reaching consensus but once we reach that point then we can close the book on that and move on.

SFC: Discussions with Mikhail with Bergen students contributing in the fall. They did a lot of Temporal libraries in the 1st semester. In fall semester, maybe contribute to MF libs. Luca (LCA) might also come in and be a cohost.

### Updates from Implementers

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/wiki/Proposal-and-PR-Progress-Tracking

DLM: No updates.

YSZ: We landed the implementation of https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-currency-display-choices.

SFC: Currency symbol? Wasn’t that a while ago?

YSZ: Display style narrow symbol currency display.

SFC: That’s old, I think.

YSZ: Still stage 2, right?

SFC: Oh I see, the currency display choices proposal. That adds formatSymbol, not narrowSymbol.

YSZ: Format symbol, sorry.

SFC: Oh ,this is EAO’s proposal for adding formal…still stage 2.

YSZ: Can’t ship something, we encountered this. No ideas yet. Just wanted to confirm.

SFC: Still stage 2 because there’s only 1 currency that has a “formal” symbol and I wanted CLDR to add more data. Taiwan dollar is the only case. Once CLDR data is fuller we can proceed. Not clear to me that the CLDR data backing this is sufficiently high quality.

FYT: No updates

### Updates from the W3C i18n Group

(no liaison present)

## Proposals and Discussion Topics

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/projects/2

### Behavior for calendar aliases.

See some choices in the following comment: https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-era-monthcode/issues/11#issuecomment-2939113885

SFC: I’d like this to get to stage 2 ASAP. Only a couple of open issues. Background: a number of calendars are aliases. Used to be one thing, now they’re something else. Islamic-ca, Ethipoic-alam (?). Canonical name is a longer form. 3 things we could do: accept & canonicalize (Firefox); accept and don’t canonicalize … (3) throw an exception. Philip and Anba had a discussion. Philip said: accept & canonicalize seems good, old name is out there and we should handle it. Justin prefers option 2. Intl.Locale? Any thoughts?

RGN: I believe `Intl.Locale` is a good analogy and it accepts and canonicalizes. So I’d like us to match that.

DLM: We support accept & canonicalize.

SFC: Justin keeps saying…I assume he’s ok with (1). I’m fine with (1) or (2). Accepting & not canonicalizing is fine. Sounds like we have more people who like (1). No one seems to be advocating strongly for (2). Let’s record we have agreement on (1).

#### Conclusion

Accept and canonicalize the aliases.

### How to gracefully handle Hijri calendar fallbacks

SFC: I have a proposal in the following comment: 

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-era-monthcode/issues/29#issuecomment-2956788284

SFC: Got a response from Manish and Philip. The proposal is that: assuming that the Islamic calendar doesn’t have the current behavior which we talked about earlier in this call and nobody liked was not shipped, we basically treat the islamic calendar then we use the islamic calendar which is the best for that locale for instance en-US will use -tabular while en-SA will use -umalqura. If we always use -umalqura then it favors the Saudi islamic calendar which doesn’t translate very well so aliasing isn’t the great solution so Temporal which doesn’t have a locale will include each islamic variant. That’s my proposal, Manish and Philip seem okay but Philip mentioned some concerns but was reasonably persuaded by my argument that we have no safer fallback.

HJS: 1st: I agree with the mandatory exception from Temporal for “islamic” without a hyphen. Making an unhyphenated map to umm-al-Qura is problematic. This can raise issues. In DTF, unhyphenated has not only had the behavior it currently has across engines. When Microsoft had its own engine, islamic resulted in the islamic-tbla behavior. So we could make DTF handle unhyphenated “islamic” revive old Microsoft behavior. Whether anyone like TBLA is questionable, but if you look at HTTP archives, the Web pages using “islamic” seem to be of vintage from the time Microsoft had its own engines? Most commonly occurs in regions that are supposed to be umm-al-Qura-affiliated. In old Microsoft engines, unhyphenated regions led to all being “tbla”. Couldn’t do anything by unhyphenated. Web pages of that vintage has been the TBLA behavior. TBLA for unhyphenated Islamic for the umm-al-Qura regions..we would preserve the behavior of those authors. Even SA has moved to Gregorian. If you want umm-al-Qura then you can do that and get that on all engines. Hence, no region-dependent mapping needed, hardcoding behavior in Temporal.

FYT: Concerned about using that as a negotiation thing in the locale to let it define a different calendar. It’s a problematic issue. I think we should request a different locale and expect a different thing. Fallbacks are different, this opens a new precedent and I don’t feel very comfortable with that.

SFC: EAO and I were talking about issue 29. My thought: we can normally derive a particular Hijri calendar from a region. This is a well-defined operation because most regions have an authority, with rules. In the case of Saudi Arabia, their rules are ones we support. For other regions, we add something sufficiently algorithmic. If the UAE had something similar to umm-al-Qura, we could use that. For regions where we don’t have a fallback, use TBLA. Seems useful to allow that behavior. And this seems like the most natural place to put that behavior. My questions for you all: is this valuable behavior? And if so, do we believe that this is the most feasible place to put that behavior?

HJS: It’s not valuable behavior where you have a feature which has islamic calendar from a region and there’s some issue with the quality of the data and apologies if the CLDR data is better than what I mention but one quality of this is that the islamic calendar has some degree of civil use and there’s some evidence that the data matches what we need. TBLA and civil are another story. There's an issue that on any given day they’re either equal or off by one or two, given on which day you were developing, you could get any result. The quality of the data is the determinant we don’t want to offer three equal options.

SFC: Not sure if this is an answer to my question. What I heard: data in CLDR is of questionable quality. But if the data were of higher quality…imagine every region had a defined calendar, and CLDR reflected that. Would this be useful behavior?

HJS: We can’t test this. As a developer, how do we know that we have high-enough quality data? It might look like it works today, but next week it’s not what you thought you got. Way more robust is, ask for Um-al-Qura if you want that. Looking at trends, civil use is Um-al-Qura. CLDR tickets filed now has Gregorian before Um-al-Qura, Hijri calendars are not for civil use. Old identifier, can we do something special with it? We’re looking for a use case. An uncomplicated thing is for the dev to ask what they want, and MDN tells them there are 3 things. TBLA, umm-al-Qura, and civil. What if you develop code today and next year browser change, and now your code is off by one? Is that good? Bad? Is there some compensation, and are we double compensating? Getting something from a black box is not a great thing.

EAO: My concern about having introduced the regional dependency would be with lock-in. Someone would depend on getting a certain sort of behavior with calendar islamic and a region. We couldn’t change it later since it would break something. I believe this has possibly negative value.

SFC: Theme from both of EAO and HJS: I see this as a best-effort kind of thing. Objective is, when you use the Islamic calendar in this way, we will do our best, given the locale. And this can improve/change over time. That’s consistent with our earlier work. Best-effor output is what we do in Intl. Axiom is best-effort, acknowledging that it’s not perfect and can change over time. As of now, I expect “islamic” is TBLA except in Saudia Arabia. And that can change over time. I think that’s OK. What I would expect Intl to do in this case.

HJS: One thing I recall is that … under ar-SA and ar-Tunisia The purpose of this is that if you ask for Arabic without region and SA, you got the arabic indic digits and if you wanted the digits that wanted latin then Tunisia gave you that and region wasn’t for the calendar but for the numbering system for microsoft systems. The didn’t support numbering system override. So in this case ar-Tunisia didn’t imply the calendar choice but instead the numbering system. That’s one issue, then there’s the issue which goes back to what you said about favoring Saudi Arabia. In Nordic countries, is there a connection between the Hijri calendar and Saudi Arabia due to funding and do we want that in CLDR. We have all this research and the idea to research on these regions if developers who want um-al-qura can already do it. Making this more complicated isn’t going to help, it will make this unreliable. Regarding accuracy we discussed this in the past with the Chinese calendar for the far future but if you ask for this domain then you can ask for a calendar and you don’t know what you got and the outputs might be off by a day or two and communicating with people about near dates is complicated. If you don’t know which one of the calendars were picked then dates won’t be as unambiguous as they need to be. We’re coming at this problem from the wrong direction. 

EAO: Echoing HJS, failure mode of formatting a date that looks right but is wrong is really bad. So best effort we should be taking is avoiding that. Different dates that we get depending on what browser, what version you’re using, so any change leads to you using the right date, your users seeing the wrong date. I think we should avoid that.

SFC: My proposal: ar-SA uses umm-al-Qura else TBLA is going to be wrong for most users.Making us unconditionally use TBLA is worse.

HJS: It gives the result of the algorithm that was in action when those pages were authored against Internet Explorer. At least it doesn’t make them wrong in the other way, just in the same way.

SFC: 2 things: I’m not putting too much weight on IE behavior. But even so, Tunisia  falling back to TBLA is the same with my proposal.

HJS: If we want to see these old web pages, we need to test at different points in time. It might look OK, or apparently ok, today, but what about the next day, when they can give different results? Then we’d need a reminder of sorts to recheck. So unhyphenated “islamic” isn’t great, looking at IE behavior. Browsers now compared to old IE behavior are wrong in these regions that actually use umm-al-Qura. Making that unconditional isn’t bad. Making it depend on the region complicates things and is unreliable. TBLA at least gives old pages behavior when the pages were created. At least TBLA behavior is explainable. It’s very old, tabular scheme. ICU4C scheme is not as explainable. Less likely to satisfy folks.

SFC: Did the old IE behavior make unhyphenated islamic use TBLA?

HJS: Umm-al-Quara in old IE, good point…

SFC: Unlike current behavior, where we have a black box, this proposed behavior is less of a black box. I’m not proposeing “islamic” does something under the hood, magically yields different results. At least we can observe the results.

HJS: You’re right and indeed in the old MS browsers ampped ar and ar-SA qualified to umalqural; when you did ar or ar-SA without -u-ca you got Umm-al-qura but with `-u-ca-islamic` you got TBLA.

SFC: Why the SA website used Tunisia instead of ar-SA-u-ca-islamic?

HJS: They used it to get TBLA with Latin digits. AR-fr uses Arabic digits. Arabic in France. There are some copy-pastables across many sites. Why else ar-FR on Saudi sites unless copy-pasted? In the old MS browsers, u-ca-islamic was TBLA.

SFC: Anyone else here with comments on this?

FYT: I worry about this. I support HJS. I don’t want to be a negotiator. Best-effor isn’t great. Locale has to do that. I don’t support a new best-effort thing on top of that.

SFC: Anyone else? I still feel uncomfdortable that we have a way forward…one concern EAO raised was “well, using ‘islamic’ results in inaccurate results”. But that’s true anyway. My solution is to make it clearer what’s wrong, and as data improves, we get better results. Seems like a win-win to me. Don’t understand arguments against it. We do negotiation anyway. If we don’t let SA fall back to umm-al-Qura, we either make it ILD or TBLA. Observable behavior is result of negotiation.

EAO: My preference is now to primarily think of who’s going to use this feature moving forwards and how can we benefit them and the existing behavior of `u-ca-islamic` in both of those points I prefer TBLA. It’s what used to happen and it’s easiest to explain to a dev. Having a calendar date formatting being possibly changeable based on changes to the region is not good behavior: it’s introducing variability.

HJS: On the point of existing pages: we’ve discussed. Going forward: devs writing code now and want umm-al-Qura can get that by asking for it. That’s more reliable. They get it by asking for it. SFC, you’re assuming existing sites don’t know about IE browser and don’t have compensations in order to get the right results. I haven't seen evidence of sites in SA that know about TBLA and then do the right adjustments to get the right output. That would be one possibility why “DWIM” can go wrong. Going forward, devs who want umm-al-Qura is to spell it out and that’s what they get.

SFC: I put low weight on the IE behavior because browsers don’t do that for like 5 years. They were already broken. From the web compat POV, that doesn’t matter to me. The idea that MS IE did it this way so we could do it that way too, but…we should have someone from MS here make that rather than reverse-engineering that from old sites. Regarding EAO and negotiation happening: mapping to TBLa unconditionally, if dev want TBLA they should say “TBLA”. If they want umm-al-Qura they can specify that. They shouldn’t use “islamic” for this cases anyway. Making it unconditionally map to TBLA locks us in to behavior that everyone here agrees is wrong. My proposal is “make ‘Islamic’ best-effort’ which shares many of the same downsides but at least gives users in SA better behavior. Another option for consideration is to make it unsupported and drop u-ca support. If I spell it wrong, I’d get the region default calendar in most region. Which is Gregorian for most regions. That would be another approach.

HJS: Going forward, nobody should be using unhyphenated islamic for projects we should figure out how to communicate that but the advice should be clear. What do we do for the old websites? If unhyphenated islamic is no longer recognized is that those websites get gregorian dates if they didn’t adjust the input to work with TBLA and Umm-al-qura … if we fall back to TBLA then they get the behavior they needed. We can stop recognizing this token and those pages don’t get what they were authored for but atleast they get something accurate.

EAO: Falling back to region defaut sounds fine. Might be a bit of extra complexity but my sense is that if we do that fallback would be nice to include the year in the output so that the dev realizes they’re getting a Gregorian data (probably unintentionally).

DLM: I agree with the point HSJ made that nobody should use islamic in the future, we should just use islamic-tbla, I agree with the concerns made earlier about favoring Saudi Arabia by using islamic-umalqura. I’d also be ok with falling back to the default calendar.

SFC: Regarding EAO: fallback to Gregorian should be not such a risk in spell-out because we’d see the Gregorian name. Maybe if it’s numeric month-day format you might see it. No risk of confusion. And I tend to agree..2 outcomes I’m Ok with: (1) Islamic is best-effort, (2) encourage people to stop using unqualified ‘islamic’. Given that we have it, and have to do something, then best-effort seems OK to me. I’d love it if people were more explicit but we’ve got to deal this. What if we have islamic return a non-islamic calendar?

HJS: Malaysian page assumes formatting a Hijri date in English assumes that it has the letters “
AH” that it can replace with something else.

SFC: Underestimated the timebox we needed for this. I hadn’t heard pushback earlier, now I think that I am not really happy with any of the options at the table.

SFC: I think we agree that unqualified islamic is generally something that developers should not rely on. Do we agree with that?

LAF: Yes

HJS: Yes

DLM: +1

EAO: +1

USA: +1

SFC: Okay, so then we just need to decide what islamic will do. There are a few options:

1. Do the best-effort thing that I suggested in my GitHub comment
2. Make it unconditionally fall back to TBLA
3. Make it unconditionally fall back to Umm al-Qura
4. Make it fall back to locale default calendar (Gregorian or Persian)

SFC: In any case, since we agree that unqualified islamic should be avoided, we should ask engines to console log a warning.

SFC: Regarding the options, anything that falls back to a specific variant of islamic has exactly the same risk of people using it the wrong way. They should use qualified islamic if they want a specific islamic variant. Therefore, I still feel that if we were to fall back to an islamic variant, then the best-effort fallback is the least bad, because it will give correct results to at least some users. But, if we feel that it is acceptable for islamic to no longer trigger an islamic calendar, then falling back to the region default seems acceptable.

HJS: The rationale for mapping to TBLA behavior is that it was the behavior that was in effect when the pages were authored.

HJS What shall we do? Do another round, maybe after talking more on GH? Disagreement here: TBLA thing? IT’s simple, explainable, behavior when the relevant pages were authored….

SFC: There are two reasons I’m a little hesitant to rely on the IE behavior. 1. It’s old enough that it no longer holds weight for web compatibility. 2. Relying on HJS’s research. We have qualifications here to find out why IE had that behavior. If we want to refer to IE, I’d like to have a bit more evidence than just “a page HJS found in the HTTP Archive and reverse engineered”.

HJS: All the time we’ve done WHATWG standards regarding writing standards based on IE behavior and this is not about internetarchive, this is about pages that aren’t active any longer, pages that were authored a while ago but still live on the internet and this is where I noticed this pattern. Does CLDR have different month names for Tunisia vs Saudi Arabia. Where do these values come from? Then when I tried those in old Edge and IE and then the strings elicit behavior that makes it make sense. From that reasoning it’s clear that even if IE and non-chromium edge, when do you use an unqualified -u-ca-islamic in Saudi Arabia and the Emirates and you have handwritten locale strings from Tunisia and so on. So whenever this occurs it’s about the old MS behavior.

SFC: For todaty’s conclusion, we have enough agreement here. We’ve agreed on the 1st principle. As for the 2nd principle, I understand HJS’s argument more, I hope he understands my argument. People on this call have gut reactions to what we said. I don’t want to spend another hour talking about “islamic” at the next meeting. I don’t know if we should email someone from MS about this. We should get feedback from the source instead of reverse engineering and there’s at most three emails that would be needed for an answer here.

EAO: Given that I think we achieved consensus that we ought to be asking browsers to be emitting a warning on -u-ca-islamic and we’re discussing fallback behavior. Making that fallback complicated would be a footgun. We should make explaining the fallback easier and it’ll allow us to change our decision later on. Not sure how we will benefit from the discussion regarding old Microsoft behavior.

### Temporal epoch years

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-era-monthcode/issues/33

SFC: Seeking agreement that Temporal defines the epoch for each calendar's "year" property instead of following the CLDR Extended Year.

SFC: The CLDR extended year does something different than what Temporal does for the chinese calendar. My proposal is that I’d like to make the Temporal proposal define the epoch years for each calendar instead of using the CLDR extended years.

USA: +1

RGN: What is being proposed here again?

SFC: *Explains in the spec*

RGN: Do you have any example code?

SFC: It’s more of an editorial question.

RGN: Not sure I understand the impact, but it sounds OK

SFC: I’ll make sure you keep you posted on the PR thread.

### Week numbering

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-era-monthcode/issues/15

SFC: Seeking agreement that, for now, ISO-8601 should be the only calendar that supports week numbering, with room for future growth.

SFC: This is because Gregorian has a number of week numbering schemes which are different from the scheme in ISO-8601

LAF: +1

RGN: +1

USA: Last we discussed this, we noted that we don't have evidence of week numbering being widely used outside of the ISO-8601 European context.

HSJ: Last we discussed this, the idea was to only support ISO week numbering but not necessarily only on the ISO calendar. There’s value in supporting them on the gregorian calendar and possibly on other calendars.

HSJ: There are locales whose preferred calendar is gregorian instead of the ISO calendar so this feels like it is ergonomically bad. Having to do a conversion every time seems unwieldy.

SFC: Code samples:

```javascript
Temporal.PlainDate.from("2025-06-12").calendarId
// 'iso8601'
Temporal.PlainDate.from("2025-06-12").weekOfYear
// 24
Temporal.PlainDate.from("2025-06-12[u-ca=gregory]").calendarId
// 'gregory'
Temporal.PlainDate.from("2025-06-12[u-ca=gregory]").weekOfYear
// undefined

myLocaleDate = Temporal.PlainDate.from("2025-06-12[u-ca=gregory]")
myLocaleDate.weekOfYear
// undefined
myLocaleDate.withCalendar("iso8601").weekOfYear
// 24
```

SFC: So if someone wants to get the ISO week number for a Gregorian date, they just need to explicitly write out the conversion.

LAF: This is a good way to tell ISO8601 has designed one numbering system and this solution is in the spirit of the rest of Temporal.

SFC: I don’t want people to mistakenly write code that assumes a different week numbering scheme. If in the future we enable this for all calendars then we should be answering this question for all of them. And I think we should do that; I just don't want to do it right now.

LAF: +1

HJS: I'm wondering if having a field like `isoWeekOfYear` would be better ergonomics?

SFC: I'm open to that; it would be an additive change. In terms of being future-proof, I think returning undefined is more future-proof.

HJS: I see that point, yeah

SFC: Let's make sure to add HJS as a reviewer

### Gregorian-like calendars

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-era-monthcode/issues/2

SFC: Should Intl Era Month Code specify which calendars are Gregorian-like, or should that be implementation-defined? 

LAF: It's not exactly the case that Buddhist, ROC are directly derived from ISO-8601. ISO is the proleptic Gregorian. If you try to code October 4 1582, you see a difference. So we should really be careful.

HJS: Spec-wise, the spec chain of how you show something is ? is a bit tenuous but someone filed an issue about this and we do have a chain of spec intent that shows that these are supposed to have a collective behavior without a julian switch-over and there’s a bug and none of these are supposed to have a Julian switch-over point according to the spec. (Edit: The issue: https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/1003 )

FYT: We don’t have any spec.

SFC: This question about the gregorian change date is a red herring. ROC and Buddhist can use the ISO calendar. Should we define that they do is the real question. We should discuss that in the context of #5. Buddhist ROC calendar doesn’t have a change date it’s just proleptic.

SFC: The question is about should the spec define that relationship between these calendars or not and leave it as implementation defined behavior.

HJS: Looking at ecma402#1003 since there are these issues and it seems bad to let these issues keep coming in and what seems to be need to be written is not all that much to begin with. The README but not the spec text does say this about those calendars and gregorian. It does imply that all the calendars are proleptic. It makes sense to put that in the spec.

LAF: I’m wondering wether once the spec was designed when we speak of the gregorian calendar it’s of course the julian to gregorian calendar with the switchover. By spec ISO8601 is proleptic and uses the 0 year. If we design ROC and Buddhist calendars as Julian to Gregorian calendars then users of those calendars used this switchover. People working in an eastern context took the calendar change into account.

HJS: Is it valuable to have the switchover for the three … calendars even if we don’t have it for gregory itself? The day of adoption of the regions was different and the regions back then were different for modern regions in CLDR. ISO and gregory only differ for years prior to 1, given that is it really worthwhile to have the switchover? I think the README makes sense for practical reasons.

SFC: I consider it a subtle question that the calendar called gregory is proleptic. I haven’t checked out the README and there’s no spec about this and we should finalize this decision now. The buddhist calendar has its own switchover date about the lunisolar to solar transition. We define the buddhist calendar and ROC as proleptic calendars. Should we write down the association in the spec or should we avoid it.

HJS: We should put it in the spec otherwise we’d be explaining this to random people forever.

SFC: Why we should special case the gregorian based calendars but not the others. To what extent should we define this for all of them? A good approach would be for a table in the spec to write out in prose what the calendar is expected to do. For all of them. For ROC or Japanese or Buddhist it should say what the behavior is.

HJS: For Japanese it’s practical for the spec to say more about the eras than the others, so let’s say the subset of that for gregory, roc, and buddhist.

FYT: In a way we already favor ISO8601

USA: I think it's easier for us to specify ISO-8601 as the special case since it is standardized.

SFC: I drafted a conclusion below. Do we agree with it?

HJS: LGTM

LAF: What do we say about year numbering? ISO8601 has a different year numbering system than Gregory.

SFC: They are defined according to the era and eraYear methods. For ROC it uses the ROC and BROC era.

LAF: Okay so each one has their own year numbering system, and they inherit from ISO-8601 for months and days.

#### Conclusion

The spec should contain a high-level description of the algorithm for all calendars. This means that ROC, Buddhist, and Japanese will state something about how the month number and day number will be the same as they are in ISO-8601.

### Decide on the era codes for the ROC calendar

SFC: See the options in this comment: 

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-era-monthcode/issues/24#issuecomment-2956835512

SFC: Is there anyone who wants to advocate for `minguo` over `roc` on this call?

(silence)

### In Intl Era Month Code text directionality, return "ltr", "rtl" or undefined, but not "ttb"

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale-info/pull/101

SFC: (introduces the change proposed in TG1)

SFC: Does anyone here explicitly support or oppose the change proposed in TG1, which FYT has reflected in the PR?

FYT: I support it

EAO: +1 on the PR

LAF: +1

EAO: I feel like we should send this back to TG1

SFC: I think TG1 approved it with the caveat.

RGN: If TG1 approved the modified version, we can merge the PR.

#### Conclusion

We agree with the TG1 addendum. We will merge the PR.
