# 2023-03-09 ECMA-402 Meeting
## Logistics

### Attendees

- Shane Carr - Google i18n (SFC), Co-Moderator
- Daniel Minor - Mozilla (DLM)
- Ujjwal Sharma - Igalia (USA), Co-Moderator
- Henri Sivonen - Mozilla (HJS)
- Romulo Cintra - Igalia (RCA)
- Ben Allen - Igalia (BEN)
- Yusuke Suzuki - Apple (YSZ)
- Richard Gibson - OpenJS Foundation (RGN)
- Justin Grant - Invited Expert for Temporal (JGT)
- Anne van Kesteren - Apple (AVK)

### Standing items

- [Discussion Board](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/projects/2)
- [Status Wiki](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/wiki/Proposal-and-PR-Progress-Tracking) -- please update!
- [Abbreviations](https://github.com/tc39/notes/blob/master/delegates.txt)
- [MDN Tracking](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402-mdn)
- [Meeting Calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=unicode.org_nubvqveeeol570uuu7kri513vc%40group.calendar.google.com)
- [Matrix](https://matrix.to/#/#tc39-ecma402:matrix.org)

## Proposals and Discussion Topics

### Canonical Time Zone Identifiers

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-temporal/pull/2516

JGT: Canonicalization of time zone names is a bit of a mess. There is a fork of the TZDB with different behaviors; one of the latest behaviors involves merging time zones across countries. For example, Atlantic/Rekjavic would be merged into Africa/Abidjan. For the purposes of Temporal, that’s really not going to work. Say you have a meeting scheduled in Iceland but there’s some timezone changes, it would break the calendar. No implementations accept this fortunately. There are 2 ways to determine the canonical IDs, though. Firefox uses the TZDB and removes the region merging. But V8 and WebKit use ICU/CLDR, which uses its own canonicalization format, maintained separately from TZDB. The biggest difference, the net result for users is that the difference here is mostly down to city name changes in the recent past, like Saigon / Ho Chi Minh City. Those renames have not caught up in V8 and WebKit and that has led to a lot of user complaints that I’ve linked to. CLDR is aware of the problem but one of the current behaviors of ICU is to never change canonical tz identifiers. There’s a lot of complaints about these but Temporal would make most of these issues more visible to users and JavaScript developers. Saving to a database and reloading would expose these inconsistencies. As soon as Temporal is adopted, it’ll greatly increase the amount of user complaints. Here’s some possible goals as outlined in the thread. 

1. Enable us to make changes, both to the names already missing, reflecting the backlog.
2. There’s the case of future name changes and coming up with a strategy on how to do this.
3. If any future implementations pick …
4. Existing implementation differences already cause problems since the outputs vary across engines.

It will give the impression of Temporal being broken as opposed to the bigger problem here.
I have outlined a few proposals for solving this problem.

1. First, we could stop canonicalizing TZIDs in JavaScript. In this case, we’d normalize the case but keep it as-is.
2. We would expose this identifier everywhere necessary in Temporal. I don’t mind how we choose to deal with resolvedOptions().timeZone, we could really go either way.
3. …

If I’ve called it Kiev, and I refer to it as Kiev, that still works even though the spelling has changed to Kyiv. Overriding concern: if we don’t do this, it would make it so difficult to change these canonicalizations in the future that we’d be stuck with whatever canonicalizations we had when Temporal shipped, with no way to change it later. 

Options: 

1. Everyone could switch to CLDR, but that doesn’t change the core problem that we have these very populous regions (India, Vietnam…) that are colonial and probably offensive to a large number of people.
2. Do it like Firefox: It does update with name changes, the challenge is that if we update everything whenever something changes, that does mean that it runs the risk of breaking the web when canonicalization changes. 
3. There’s a fork of Java that behaves very similar to the Firefox implementation
4. Leave Firefox as-is, Chrome and WebKit can hardcode these thirteen names 
5. Status quo: do nothing

JGT comfortable with any option but 5. 

SFC: Option #5 – the status quo is that things are not consistent across the web platform, and this leaves open the option that we continue to discuss, and converge on a good solution over time. That is okay to do. Option 5 just means “we’re not going solve it now, we’ll solve it later.” 

JGT: Main concern is that once Temporal is released, changing canonicalization behavior could be much more disruptive than it is now. While it’s true that we can change things work in the future, the cost of making those changes later is a lot higher than the cost of making it now. 

USA: Every other timezone name-change would keep increasing the stakes as well

SFC: Reiterate concern with “option 0” (proposed behavior). Temporal should not be in the business of creating its own scheme, for example case-mapping names to reflect IANA IDs. ECMAScript should not be in the business of describing this – if we could point to another specification and say “here’s how you do weak canonicalization, here’s how you do heavier canonicalization”, and say “those are defined in UTS-35.” Here we’re going out on a limb and saying “here’s what weak canonicalization is for identifiers.” We could try to get that in UTS-35 and use that in Temporal – that’s not something that’s going to happen overnight, but if we were to go in this direction it’s how we should do it. We should not in ECMA-402 invent canonicalization schemes.

Options 2, 3, and 4 look similar except for how they’re implemented in browsers. 

So I see the choices as being option 1, use CLDR names, option 2, use IANA names, skip to 5, leave it for now and investigate. I understand JGT’s concern that Temporal makes this more front and center, but I don’t think we’re going to have a specification written tonight. I see this as something we can start to work on, and it will be fixed maybe in a year. This will likely align with when Temporal is going to be available anyway. I agree this is a problem we should fix, but I don’t see that it needs to block Temporal right now – these can be done in parallel. Leave it as a Stage 1 proposal. Say "here’s a standalone proposal, it doesn’t block on Temporal and Temporal doesn’t block on it."

RGN: It is inaccurate to call this as a new canonicalization scheme, since IANA has zones and links. There are multiple spellings for Kolkata for example. What we have right now is a specification which no implementation follows except probably Firefox. The question is if we should bring them together or if we need to make some adjustments to the spec.

YSZ: Unlike Firefox and Chrome, Safari, specifically Safari, is using the system ICU. This means that Firefox/Chrome are shipping [...] basically, at browser level they are shipping ICU aligned with their version, so when ICU is updated or engine is updated, there are no problems. We are having a different mechanism to update timezone separate from ICU. It is very hard to encode the hardcoded code into the Safari side. In Safari side, we are not well-aligned to the specific ICU version, so if we need 

JGT: A few things. On process, I agree with SFC that this could be a separate independent proposal focused on 402. I would be happy to help champion this, but I'd like to partner with someone more familiar with the proposal process. And SFC mentioned that we would be inventing our own casing canonicalization. My understanding is that the semantics of an ASCII-case-insensitive database are well understood. I don't see that as us inventing a scheme, but looking up something in TZDB and reporting what we find. That's better than browsers making their own decisions. I don't understand deeply the limitations of ICU and what that means for the choices in this proposal. For timing, I agree that it may take a while. But I think we shouldn't wait to start in a year.

SFC: It doesn’t seem to be an elegant solution to store both a partially canonicalized version and a fully canonicalized version. Regarding YSZ’s comments, this is a totally valid concern to address. I  believe it may be in scope to have an API (possibly IC4X) to convert. Option 4 could be used for browsers working on old ICUs.

YSZ: Sounds reasonable to me.

RGT: Regarding the canonicalization of case, it is trivial. “Use the form that appears in the database.” It’s all ASCII, case insensitive, use the form that’s in the database. 

SFC: So we’re still looking up the timezone in the timezone database

RGT: You can’t canonicalize invalid input. It has to be in the database. Also, though, canonicalization may not be the right term. It’s just “do you follow links or not” The policy of the timezone database has made this more awkward, since the links can vaporize at any time.

HJS: Ideally the way forward is ICU having an API for acquiring the IANA canonical name, but I’m doubting the level of problem until that API appears that Safari would hardcode stuff. Some of these names are 30 years old, so it doesn’t look like they come up very often. It seems feasible to me to have a hard-coded list until such time as you can assume that whatever ICU version is going to have the future ICU API. This doesn’t look to me like a hard reason to block the IANA names. For BCP47, whenever a new timezone appears, there is a need to mint a BCP47 identifier for it, and that does not seem to materialize in the IANA data. Is the story for that that ICU provides that mapping and that therefore it doesn’t need to be hard-coded on the application side? 

JGT: HJS, you are correct that these are really rare. The last one I can think of is Kiev -> Kyiv. I would estimate that one of these gets renamed every year or so, so not very frequent, and some of these renames are very small jurisdictions that won’t see much use at all. One note: I would assume that if we do a proposal for this, it’s really a proposal for the spec text rather than a proposal for the ICU API – I’m not really qualified to make a proposal for ICU, but will need someone else to drive that. I’m happy to drive the spec text. I agree with RGT about how canonicalization works: it really is “take the tz database, convert it to database, take the user’s identifier and convert it to lowercase, see if there’s a map.” Very straightforward. Agree with RGT: the spec says we should follow links, but no one follows links, and the spec is not clear on which links should be followed and which parts of ECMAScript should follow links and which should not follow linked.

SFC: Does the decision we make here affect timezone equality? 

JGT: My instinct is that the only thing that this decision should impact is the user-viewable identifiers, everything else ECMAScript does should be the same, including the equality of ZoneDateTime objects. Changing the name from Kiev to Kyiv should not cause two to be unequal. We could, though, add an API that allows users to check if two time zone identifiers resolve to current value. Ways to do this in current spec, but we could add more ergonomic ways to do it. If the goal of the proposal is to make ECMAScript code less brittle in terms of changes in time zone names, it would be a mistake to not have equality “canonicalize both values, and if they’re the same then they’re equal.” 

#### Conclusion

OK to entertain a proposal in this space.

### ZonedDateTime / DateTimeFormat

https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1b74GI-zHrG0wDzmwFs_yPWRli24KyVUNx3GeZt8JouA/edit#slide=id.g2175c57f0b8_0_29

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-temporal/pull/2479

JGT: Today in ECMAScript no ECMAScript object carries a timezone with it. With TemporalDateTime, this object carries a timezone, and there’s a potential conflict. The goal for solving this is to recognize that a very large percentage of Intl.DateTime objects have no timezone at all. Assumption is that we can create a DateTIme object and format it with at ZoneDateTime timezone and have it give the ZoneDateTime time. 

What we’re considering is: what happens if the DateTime object has a time zone as well? There’s a potential conflict between DateTime and ZoneDateTime. Option: if the DateTime object has a timezone, throw. We try not to have data-driven exceptions in Temporal, we try to throw based on the shapes of the inputs rather than the data in those inputs. 

SFC: This isn’t my first-choice approach, but it seems to be closest to a consensus response among Temporal champions. DateTime objects have two states: one where there is an explicit timezone, and one where there isn’t, and recording this state somewhere. Requires change to Intl.DateTimeFormat data model. 

JGT: Note that Date.toLocaleString() cannot use ZoneDateTime, it’s possible to have no additional data stored when calling Date.toLocaleString(), but one additional piece of data stored with DateTimeFormat. Note that DateTimeFormat’s entire purpose is a more performant version of toLocaleString(), at least that’s my understanding, and presumably when userland uses these APIs, they will not be creating many of these objects. Adding a little bit of memory when there are few created in order to get performance over time, this seems like a good choice. Users shouldn’t be creating millions of these anyway, since that would be a very bad performance idea. 

YSZ: This sounds great.

### User Preferences Update

BEN: We've largely been focused on ways of gaining user consent. Since last meeting, it seems that there is no consensus on the methods of gaining consent. A pop-up asking for permission like camera and microphone doesn't seem to align with stakeholders. The other approach is to have it set as browser preferences. But, we're trying to move focus more to exposing this data in a way that makes it harder to individuate users. What I've heard is that we should limit the ways users can set. So for example, rather than letting users specify their currency, digits separator, and temperature units, which gives a big fingerprint, give users a smaller number of sets that are commonly used, i.e., deviations from one's locale that are common use cases. There are technical and social problems that need to be resolved. For example, how do we make a JavaScript API so that these sets can be selected? (1) How do we decide what these sets should be, like with user research? (2) How do we decide on these sets without being colonialist? So I would like to start with a couple of questions. The first that comes to mind is that if we're reducing the sets of preferences people can select to a smaller number, can users specify an arbitrary region? For example, if we allow users to specify that they want sites to serve up a specific currency, we can only have a few currency options in those sets. Would it be too individuating to have a common set of preferences, which doesn't accommodate currencies, but have region overrides?

HJS: Last time there was a use case regarding numbering systems in India. Is there a list of user stories that are realistic and need to be addressed?

SFC: Talking of restriction to sets here, it puts the onus on us to define what the sets would be. So while we could restrict user choice to popular sets and address most of the use cases, we’d need to put in the time and work for doing that kind of user research. It’s easier for us to keep to the options specified UTS35, but that option maximizes the fingerprint surface. Talking about things like currencies, we currently have the option to specify a region, like specifying the region of GB with en-US. This does not have enough fidelity to address common use cases. 90-95% of users who deviate from their locale would be satisfied with specifying the region and one more set.

HJS: Talking about the region overrides, what level of overlap exists. How many combinations exist ignoring currencies. Maldives for example is a strong edge case. The question is how many of those region overrides cluster up?

SFC: I can answer in terms of measurement units and such. In most regions, hour cycles fall in one of two categories. In terms of unit measurements, there’s a big common metric group but there are known deviations from that in particular instances. So probably measurement units could be brought down to ten major categories. Measurement units, however, are not a monolith. It’s usually much more nuanced in some instances. A fairly common case is folks who use Celsius for temperature but for example stick to Imperial for road measurements/distances. 

AVK: I don’t think we need to globally broadcast these highly specific preferences to the world.

SFC: In the Intl APIs, when you use them they should be able to infer the user’s preferences. Take hour cycle for example. Right now there’s no way for a user to specify which hour cycle to use for displaying dates on a website. If a user visits 20-30 domains on a day-to-day basis, it allows you to communicate these preferences. There is currently no way for us to find user’s unit preferences on the web which means unit formatting is blocked on that. The status quo is exactly what Anne describes. All websites that do this currently have to develop individualized solutions, which goes against the ideal of the multilingual web. 

HJS: If you browse the web in multiple languages, the general idea is that the text of those sites doesn’t auto translate under this proposal, it just changes certain things like how certain elements are formatted. The user might expect those elements to conform to the surrounding context of the site, and it may be confusing to change them to the user’s locale in the context of foreign text. I had to once check a website on multiple browsers to check exactly when a certain event happened. For instance, interpreting the 12 hour hour-cycle is pretty universally understood by English readers. Considering how the C stdlib has pretty much failed in Intl means that everyone uses ICU instead of the standard library, given how it reacts to changes in the underlying locale. …
There aren’t objections but skepticism arising from other contexts regarding how we should fundamentally approach this issue.

YSZ: At the moment, we have the following mental model: <>, some of the users cannot understand the Arabic numbering system. Some systems have capacity to explicitly specify the change in this numbering system in the same locale. Internationalized numbers cannot be understood by the users. THis is represented as a Unicode extension, but we’re thinking that this is the part of the locale, and this should be exposed without asking things. Needs to be super carefully bucketed inside the system. Example case: hourCycle, Celcius/Fahrenheit, kilometers/miles, this does not prevent the user from understanding the content. I don’t have an idea immediately – if you see Arabic numbers, I can’t see if these are even numbers. We need to have a way to get user consent, current thinking is that we’d prefer offering the HTML form element and showing a picker, so that the user explicitly sets the set of preferences. In this case we don’t need to show any prompt, because the user is explicitly pushing the form, we can use this Unicode extension data and pass it to existing i18n API. I think that we are not agreeing much about exposing the user preference by default implicitly. We could like to explore a way to get this information from the user explicitly. For the super-critical things, we’d like to implicitly include it as part of the locale. 

USA: I think 

BEN: I love the distinction made by Yusuke between UI-critical and non-critical things. That said, there’s a grey area here. For example, a ticketing app having minor misunderstandings can cause a lot of problems. Regarding the translation question, I would prefer the elements to be translated.

EAO: Two things: firstly, what Henri mentioned about the list of use cases. It would be nice to hear about that list of use cases. Secondly, what I was really thinking about, when talking about user preferences where the user doesn’t set the preferences, for example in a public computer. These user preferences would be telling the website the wrong information. Is there a way to get this toggling mechanism, or would a website be able to integrate it? And if so, will they have to forgo user preferences completely?

RCA: Thank you for the explainer. In my experience we have different problems to solve: first, what data do we want to expose, but also and maybe more important, the mechanism we use to avoid users exposing information in a non-informed way. Traditional popups not the best UX, taking the data directly from the OS to pick preferences for the website is not optimal, but there is a middle ground here where browsers on their settings can set that these preferences are not exposed, and users must opt in to exposing that information.  The host should make accessing this information as difficult as possible. 
No clear idea how the buckets would work in reality. 

HJS: Some of the thoughts from earlier were the same as the webkit standards position comment. There was the idea in there that there could be buckets for these options. There was a mention that webkit does something like this, but it’s an undocumented setting on NSLocale – is that mechanism documented somewhere in public so that other vendors can see what’s being referred to as a precedent. 

YSZ: Quick comment, are these things public or not. 

SFC: Two general things here: first, regarding the idea of ambient preferences. We can conclude that the best solution would be for all Intl APIs to use a selected locale. That said, there’s also the thing regarding the default locale. It is a limitation of the current web platform to not use the full set of locale options that are specified in the Unicode spec. The second question is, can there be a line between essential and non-essential preferences? That’s a gray area. Numbering systems for example is well supported. In terms of measurement units, it’s harder to draw this line. It’s true that people in the world can do a conversion inside their head, but it would be bad for accessibility to mandate that. For hour cycles, it’s easier to accept but it’s a bit harder for people to read the time with the opposite hour cycle so it gets to a situation where we have to judge which sets of preferences are more important than the others. Maybe it’s possible, but I’m skeptical when I hear this.

BEN: There’s two ways to think about getting the most coverage. One is to find the sets of preferences which covers the most individual users, which we can determine with user research, and the other is to find the set of overlapping preferences that cover the widest range of users, even if this doesn’t necessarily cover the maximum number of users. 

USA: Raises the question of fairness: I don’t want to be in the position of answering these questions. Although I do like the idea of restricting user choice, I’m not certain that the end result will be equitable.

AVK: The things that aren’t mentioned here are privacy, and preventing minority groups from being identified. The more bits you expose, the more potentially dangerous it is. We can’t just trust websites to do the right thing. 

EAO: I think your characterization is in general right, but for me the main concern is what happens when things don’t go quite completely right. Let’s say that my user preferences would be that I want to experience the web in German, but I want to use miles for distance measurements. What happens if I instead end up in a page that’s not available in English, and I’m seeing some distance measurements without explicit statement of users. What I have here, I have only given the language locale preference, German wasn’t available so we fell back to English, so it’s in miles. Here we’re introducing more dimensions in which things can go not as expected. My sense is that this is likely to lead to more confusion and less benefit than solving the problem of making sure that numbers can easily be formatted, providing an API that allows for easy formatting, so that a website that wants to make things more configurable can in this context ask the user for that data, and to use that to generate content.

SFC: The way I look at that we have i18n goals and we have privacy goals. It’s important for us to align on what are acceptable outcomes in terms of an i18n perspective, and then find a way to meet these goals that also reflects the concerns from the privacy perspective. Acknowledge that we do have these two competing group of stakeholders, and as the i18n groups we need to be clear on what the acceptable outcomes are from the i18n perspective.

HSJ: First of all to highlight again that some of these problems have existing solutions that are acceptable i18n-wise and don’t have the associated privacy problems. Going again with the example of a formatted date on a website, in such cases it’s very unhelpful to render something in the context of the user instead of the context of the website. When I used a Danish website to buy train tickets, choosing the English language, the JavaScript datepicker used the date in the American format. There is no US involved here: Denmark uses ISO weeks, I use ISO weeks. If the site used HTML date pickers, it could have come from the browser settings without the privacy issue. There are solutions to some of these that already resolve the tension between i18n concerns and privacy concerns. It could be the case that looking at use cases enough there are use cases that expose this, but there’s still the question of the user not being able to tell if their preferences are being honored or not. And then there’s the question of are there alternative designs that solve both i18n and privacy problems. 

DM: I am sympathetic to this proposal living in Canada. That being said, I want to echo some points made. For example, the privacy concerns are very important. If we develop a great solution i18n-wise, but the privacy tradeoffs don’t work, it would be difficult to put it to work. To do user research for picking up the major buckets we’d need to cater to a large majority. From those points of view, I have serious reservations about how well it’d do in the larger committee. For now, I’d say that the UX benefits don’t clearly outweigh the privacy costs here while being more sympathetic that average to Intl benefits.

SFC: I’m convinced that it’s possible for us to converge on a solution here. The solution of having a fixed set of buckets with (for example) numbering system described in those sets. Direction of having a limited number of sets worth exploring, though it does involve user research. Position I’m taking is that I’d like to solve something like 90% of cases where users go into Intl APIs that differ from their language. This all represents preferences in the form of hints to the implementation. Using the regional preferences even further worsens the experience for minority groups, since using the majority preferences may not be tenable for them. I am trying to align here on the direction we could take which we could all agree for. Seems like there are two approaches which help with the privacy concerns: essential vs non-essential or the set of ten.

EAO: How much is this a problem for the English locale? Since it’s so widespread in use, it seems like most variations exist mostly in English.

HSJ: There has already been the suggestion to drop something like currency since it’s much more likely to cause fingerprinting. Collation for example also seems to me to be a very locale-specific problem. Since it’s a very relevant one for Taiwan, it’s definitely important.

Conceivably someone could pick some of the other ones, but the other ones potentially the traditional collation is a thing. CLDR has it for Finnish and Swedish. For Finnish I can say confidently that users don’t care about it, for Arabic I’m not certain it matters for the Web that CLDR ships what’s old for ICU. For CLDR, they don’t want to unship a thing that has been shipped. For the collation one, Taiwan and maybe Spain are ones where there are two different choices. 

BEN: Something I’ve been thinking about is that some amount of this data is necessary to be exposed for localization and is there a case to be made that we need to design mechanisms to ensure that when that information is exposed, it’s exposed in as responsible a way as possible.

USA: Related to what EAO mentioned, from my understanding there’s at least a number of language, the ones I would know of would be about 10, where there’s significant variations. With the variations we see, the popular ones are most lower (?)

SFC: In response to what HJS said, that seems like another path. We support zh-TW and zh-TW with Pinyin collation, if that’s a common use case. We could support en-US and en-US with celsius – variations on existing locales. That’s an interesting direction to explore. We currently support any variation of language, script, and region. We could take this set of 250 of the most major language-script pairs and increase it to 275, we’re increasing the combinations that users can specify.

EAO: Voicing my support for that idea: talking about or considering a set of individual locales or sub-locales for which we would be solving actual real-world problems within these groupings, so the question of Taiwan, American English with Celcius, would be much easier to start verifying that these populations are sufficiently large that we could get some utility for something like this with fewer privacy concerns. 

BEN: I have enough info to proceed. It seems like the group consensus is to focus on selecting commonly used sets and also pinpoint the most popular ones.

SFC: That’s certainly a proposal that was raised.

AVK: I think you need to first come up with a set in order to perform a proper privacy analysis. I feel that most popular places to see things like temperatures and distances come with individual toggles to choose the appropriate units. Things certainly get more complicated but you need to find out which problems that bothers users most. 

BEN: It seems like the numbering system is the higher priority thing here since that’s one of the bigger things when it comes to making a website unintelligible.

EAO: On that topic, maybe we can try to provide better defaults like “International English”.

ZB: First, we do have international English. en-001. We can have European English, etc. But I feel there are two levels, involving mutual intelligibility. And independent of mutual intelligibility, I am concerned about the language that AVK used for a switch from Fahrenheit to Celcius as being sufficient, since although it’s a papercut, it’s a deep, repeated papercut. It’s very easy to be numb to that when you don’t have those needs, in the same way that accessibility problems aren’t immediately apparent to people who don’t need it. There’s a long tail of users who have their own preferences and would like to have them reflected. This second level – you can technically read it, you can keep flipping the switch from Fahrenheit to Celcius, but it is nearly as important as the unintelligiblity problem. This is actually omnipresent – 90% of your webbrowsing involves this.

SFC: Pushing back on the idea that all of these websites should have these toggles. In terms of things like temperature, we don’t have an API for temperature because it’s blocked on this proposal – I see temperature rendered not just on weather websites, but news sites, maps, and so forth. These are things that are omnipresent, and it’s not a correct characterization to say that this only applies to a few websites. We have data on that, if that would be useful.

HJS: I think it would be useful to document the numbering system use case for people who only use one numbering system, in order to understand it better. Specifically, how does it correlate with the language of the page. Is it context-sensitive which digits should be used, and in general we should document which of these are general-purpose and which are dependent on contexts. For temperature it seems to me that it is not contextual – as long as the site says it’s C or F, it’s not ambiguous what it is. Earlier I gave the example of month abbreviations being context-dependent. Some of these are attached to a language – if we decide that it’s a use case that someone would prefer traditional Spanish collation, that doesn’t mean that they want traditional Finnish collation, or traditional Bangla collation. I don’t know if numbering system is something you want to see in the context of the language you’re reading, or if it’s ambiguous. If there’s no way to see whether or not the site is using your preferences, it would be useful to go through these categories and figure out which ones are not context-sensitive / always unambiguous, like temperature, which ones attach to a language, like traditional collation, and which ones are confusing if you read multiple languages and it’s actually less helpful if there’s a mismatch between the language you’re reading and the formatting.

YSZ: I’d like to mention I’m not disagreeing with the thought that user preferences significantly improve the experience, but what we’re seeing is that this does damage to privacy, which is why we’d like to care about these things very carefully. We see that both privacy and i18n are super appropriate. 
