Agenda: [https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/blob/HEAD/meetings/agenda-2018-01-19.md](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/blob/HEAD/meetings/agenda-2018-01-19.md)

Attendees:

* Caridy Patino (CP) -
* Zbignew Braniecki (ZB) - Mozilla -
* Daniel Ehrenberg (DE)  - Igalia - github.com/littledan
* Stas Malolepszy (SM)
* Jungshik Shin (JS) - Google - github.com/jungshik
* Steven R. Loomis (SL) - IBM - github.com/srl295
* Eemeli Aro (EA) - github.com/eemeli
* Nebojsa Ciric (NC) - Google
* Shane Carr (Shane) - Google
* JH: Jack Horton (MSFT) github.com/jackhorton
* DIV: Doug Ilijev (MSFT) github.com/dilijev
* BT: Brian Terlson (MSFT) github.com/bterlson
* AA: Axel Andrejs (MSFT)
* JG: Jeff Genovy (MSFT)

1. Introduce meeting
    1. Agenda priority: Discuss proposals which are furthest along in standardization first
    2. The greatest need for feedback for committee process is the proposals for advancement to Stage 3 (4. below); however, first review the new "finished" standards.
2. ECMA 402, 2018 edition
    1. [formatToParts](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/47)
        * For DateTimeFormat and NumberFormat
        * Template for future proposals
        * Stage 4
        * Implemented and shipped in Chrome and Firefox
        * Standardized in 2017 edition (DateTimeFormat) and standardizing 2018 edition (NumberFormat)
        * Any concerns?
            * DIV: NumberFormat formatToParts is exposed as "draft" in ICU 60, so it’s not exposed in the Windows ICU API, which only exposes stable things. Plan is to expose it as Stable in ICU 61.
            * SL: You could also just pull [the implementation](https://unicode-org.atlassian.net/browse/ICU-12684). Maybe we should discuss this offline further with MS ICU people to make it available earlier.
            * ZB: Are you concerned about putting it in the 2018 edition before you’re able to ship it?
            * JH: I think it’s reasonable to say that we can ship it later, though I can’t make promises for what we will ship.
            * DIV: The [MSFT] ICU team in general is hesitant about specifying an unstable API for use here.
            * ZB: The specification doesn’t specifically mention the API
            * SL: The ICU API is following the request here and marking this stable. The ICU API came as a response to this request from the ECMA specification.
            * ZB: OK, ICU 61 is coming out in March, seems like this is good to go.
    2. [PluralRules](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-plural-rules)
        * Stage 4
        * Implemented and shipped in Chrome and Firefox
        * Standardizing in 2018 edition
        * Should ICU support [an API for getting the supported locales](https://unicode-org.atlassian.net/browse/ICU-12756) or should ICU users assume all locales are supported?
        * Any concerns?
            * CP: This is a new API merged into the specification.
            * ZB: Six years since we added a new constructor in ECMA 402!
            * EA: How is the polyfill?
            * ZB: Seems like this would be useful in Intl.js
            * NC: Does PluralRules enable us to do message formatting any way we want until we get actual message formatting
            * JS: Any plural-related things, lets you select the message. Doesn’t include the message.
            * ZB: Everything on top of PluralRules is just an algorithm, so hopefully this reduces the load of any
            * EA: The data is small here
            * NC: Seems like this
            * DE: Is there a way to get the list of availableLocales for plural rules?
            * EA: Seen a locale with Cardinal rules but without Ordinal Rules
            * SL: can assume that  if ‘locale’ data (e.g. for formatting) is available for a given locale, PR is also available for the locale.
            * SM: Firefox ships or is preparing to ship in 19 locales which don't have plural rules defined in the CLDR. These are: ach, an, cak, csb, gn, hto, ia (Interlingua), kok, lij, ltg, mai, oc, pbb, qvi, rw, sat, son, trs, tsz.
            * SL: Can you make sure these issues are raised to CLDR?
            * ZB: Mozilla will upstream the plural rules for those 19
            * SM: I’ll check if we’ve already submitted tickets.
    3. [hourCycle](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/135)
        * Landed as a pull request (no stages)
        * Standardizing in 2018 edition
        * [PR out for review](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/204) -- minor tweak for resolved locale
        * Any concerns?
            * Implemented and shipped in Firefox
            * JH: Implemented in ChakraCore but not released yet
            * OK, no more concerns
    4. Small changes
        * [Normative: Add calendar and numberingSystem options](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/175)
            * Add two things to the option bag that are present in locale tags
            * TC39 agreed to the change
            * Any concerns?
                1. NC: There was an ICU problem previously
                2. JS: The ICU problem should be resolved
                3. ZB: We discussed this in the bug tracker with several people; it seemed uncontroversial
                4. SL: Gotcha in ICU: You can’t change these settings on the fly, but it has to be in the constructor. This is a long-standing feature now
                5. JS: Maybe we should add a feature to ICU to change the calendar on the fly
                6. SL: This feature request doesn’t seem appropriate to me.
        * [Normative: Apply TimeClip in PartitionDateTimePattern](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/194)
            * Throw RangeError for dates which are invalid by being too large or small
            * Aligns with Date without adding complexity
            * Test262 tests; implemented in Firefox 59
            * Any concerns?
                7. Seems good
        * [Make LocalTZA take 't' and 'isUTC' and drop DSTA(t)](https://github.com/tc39/ecma262/pull/778)
            * Date semantics tweaks for timezones
            * Timezone offset is dependent on the current time, matching reality
            * Define particular semantics for repeated times due to DST
            * Implementation out for review in V8
            * Merged into ECMA 262, slated for ES2018
                8. JS: Previous specification assumes that the local timezone offset doesn’t change over time. But, this is not accurate; several time zones have had their base change over time. The current specification makes it impossible to properly handle historical dates. There’s a V8 implementation out for review, using the ICU API. I think other implementations can do the same.
                9. NC: Do we carry the historical timezone data?
                10. JS: Yes. Actually we had some historical Mozilla test that we had to disable since it expected the spec semantics.
                11. DE: I’m not sure if OS semantics support this, as opposed to using ICU. Many JS implementations currently use OS APIs.
                12. JS: I think the Windows API supports this, but we would’ve had to modify the sandbox to support it. For Linux, it probably is possible, but it would probably require a lot of hooks and duplicating a lot of what ICU does. For that reason, I didn’t other to do it.
                13. SL: POSIX APIs assume that
                14. JS: I have an ICU change request open to change ICU to make this easier to implement.
                15. ZB: Do implementers have any concerns?
                16. JH: If this will require an ICU API, we definitely need it to not be internal.
                17. JS: For Edge, you have two options: If you want to use the Windows API, there is a Windows API that makes it easier to use this.
                18. SL: This is a long-standing stable ICU API
                19. JS: But one API that I need to use is marked internal.
                20. SL: Let’s follow up offline.
    5. [Data-Driven APIs for formatting](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/210)
        * SC: Many libraries are working to extract data from Intl. If we could have a data-driven API, it would be easier to customize
        * NC: This is a good idea, and this data would always be more useful, but the data format is an open question. We shouldn’t depend on ICU.
        * SC: We could use UTS 35, or make a new data standard.
        * CP: None of the formats that are there make forward-compatibility guarantees.
        * ZB: UTS 35 doesn’t help us too much; none of ECMA 402 depends on this. We’d have to make a lot of changes to the specification, and not make things data-dependent.
        * SC: If we introduce this, then other specifications could be rephrased in terms of this new data source.
        * CP: The problem is the stability of UTS 35--we have to make sure that
        * DE: Seems like there is still a lot more design work.
3. Stage 3 proposals
    1. [Intl.Segmenter](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-segmenter/)
        * Stage 3
        * No implementations or test262 tests
        * Current specification deliberately doesn't specify segmentation algorithm.
        * Should we switch to requiring UAX 14/29 + unspecified tailoring?
        * Should we require that HTML line breaking matches Intl.Segmenter breaks?
        * Discussion
            * NC: The segmenter is being reworked significantly internally
            * JS: That’s not relevant here; isn’t the concern the dictionary size? What do we say about CJK?
            * NC: There’s improvements for reverse iteration, etc.
            * DE: The specification lets you jump to a random code unit and iterate forwards or backwards; is this too general?
            * JS: The specification deliberately doesn’t specify the segmentation algorithm. We discussed dictionary size. Chrome on Android dropped the CJK dictionary due to the size concern. V8 on Android is different from V8 on desktop as far as CJK segmentation is concerned. What about Node?
            * SL: There’s a stripped-down data set by default, and then you can install all the data which includes dictionaries.
            * DE: So, is unspecified breaking right? And, should we continue to leave the connection to CSS unspecified?
            * JS: ICU has ‘strict’, ‘loose’ and ‘normal’ from CSS3. Does Ecma want to have those options?
            * DE: Possible to add them as an option. Currently, there’s no option.
            * DE: how about ‘word-break: break-all’?
            * JS: This is for latin text in CJK text
            * SL: There’s a lot of room for improvement here
            * NC: Internally in Google, there’s a lot of machine learning work going on for segmenters
            * JS: As far as CJK is concerned, dictionaries are only used for word breaking, not line breaking. Dictionary is required for line and word breaking in Thai,Khmer,Lao,Burmese, but the dictionary is smaller.
            * NC: Do we handle grapheme breaking in Segmenter or in String?
            * DE: Grapheme breaking is part of the Segmenter. We have word, grapheme, sentence and line breaking.
            * NC: Seems like we won’t have perfect support in all locales, but it is reasonable to add this.
            * JS: For me, line breaking is the most important piece. Word breaking requires dictionary for CJK and SEA; line breaking requires dictionary for just SEA.
            * NC: So, let’s settle on the API.
            * DE: No need to advance stages, already at Stage 3. So, should we continue to not specify an algorithm?
            * NC: It won’t be possible to specify an algorithm.
            * SL: We could expose the lb tag to specify strictness.
            * DE: Currently strictness is only supported via the options bag
            * JS: Seems like we should add this to the locale tag.
            * SL: There are many other things in locales that could be added
            * SL: Unicode locale extensions have ‘lb’ (line breaking), ‘wb’ (? word breaking), ss (suppress …),
            * SL: If we have those three in the BCP, we should mention them in the specification here. [https://www.unicode.org/repos/cldr/trunk/specs/ldml/tr35.html#UnicodeLineBreakStyleIdentifier](https://www.unicode.org/repos/cldr/trunk/specs/ldml/tr35.html#UnicodeLineBreakStyleIdentifier) [https://www.unicode.org/repos/cldr/trunk/specs/ldml/tr35.html#UnicodeSentenceBreakSuppressionsIdentifier](https://www.unicode.org/repos/cldr/trunk/specs/ldml/tr35.html#UnicodeSentenceBreakSuppressionsIdentifier)
            * NC: Currently we support lb. Should we support wb and ss? Are they important enough? Some of these seem a little artificial, like ss, which is based on the technology underneath.
            * SL: I don’t quite follow. Ss specifies an improvement to line breaks using commonly known exceptions.
            * DE: I’ll open an issue so we can continue to discuss these options in GitHub.
4. Proposals for advancement to Stage 3
    1. [Intl.RelativeTimeFormat](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-relative-time)
        * Stage 2
        * [Intl.RelativeTimeFormat type: numeric/text naming](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-relative-time/issues/54)
        * [ICU support](https://unicode-org.atlassian.net/browse/ICU-13256) for RelativeTimeFormat.prototype.formatToParts?
        * API: Similar to ICU, create a formatter, then use it with a particular unit. No built-in algorithm for choice of unit. [PR](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-relative-time/pull/18)
        * Aesthetics: Unit is passed as a string, accepted in either singular or plural [Bug](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-relative-time/issues/40)
        * Omitted features: Capitalization context, days of the week, compound uni
        * Ready for Stage 3?
            * NC: Does this make "32 days ago" into “one month and two days ago”
            * DE: compound unit is not supported. Earlier draft supported it, but it was removed due to design issues.
            * JS: future plan for compound unit?
            * DE: We could do this in a future version, but there are many policy choices, so it is complicated. List format over RelativeTF is an option.
            * NC: Does this work
            * DE: What should we do about type: numeric/text, which has numeric as the default?
            * JS: What’s the motivation?
            * DE: You don’t know which is the right cutoff unless you know what time of day it is, etc. You don’t have the timeline that this is relative to.
            * CP: Depending how you do the computation, you may decide tomorrow or in one day, but the default needs to be numeric.
            * NC: Even with numeric, you have the problem of what to do in timezone changes.
            * DIV: When I saw this option, when I saw "type: numeric" I thought I’d be getting a number back.
            * CP: This is one concern of mine; we’ve been bikeshedding.
            * SL: I’ve thought of numeric as based on an interval, rather than an numeric.
            * NC: Is it right for numeric to be the default?
            * DIV: I think numeric should be the default.
            * CP: I think so too. You have to be aware of this issue if you want to get yesterday/tomorrow.
            * DIV: Speaking of days, can we have "1 day, 1 hour, and 30 seconds ago"?
            * (reply): can do with [ListFormat](?) + RelativeTimeFormat
            * This is a low-level API (similar to PluralRules) on top of which a library writer can implement a smarter (higher-level) API.
            * Will present next week (name TBD?)
    2. [Intl.Locale](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale/)
        * Stage 2
        * [Should locales support _?](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale/issues/7)
            * DIV: No, underscore is deprecated / part of the old (replaced) RFC!
            * SC: Why not support the underscore?
            * SL: In ICU, you have an API to convert ICU-locale id  to BCP 47 language tag (toLanguageTag) , but conversion is more than replacing ‘_’ with ‘-’ (they’re different locale id systems). There are also Windows locale APIs.
            * JS: Yes, it should be explicit.
            * Conclusion: Not supported.
        * [Will not throw an exception on unsupported locales](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale/issues/6)
            * NC: We were talking about possible additional data packs. This allows working with the locale ID. We don’t have any data, but we have a working BCP 47 ID. If it goes into date formatter, date formatter will
        * [Should additional tags be passed through?](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale/issues/4)
            * SL: Should be able to round-trip, though it’s OK to sort the tags and normalize the locale.
        * OK to ship this as a minimal base, with other important complements (likely subtags, display names, more options) in follow-on proposals?
            * We may also want to add more things to read data from the locale
            * NC: We could add a get value for key operation. I’ll try to propose something early enough; otherwise, propose it for Stage 3 without that.
            * JS: Should we restrict this to the u subtag, or allow more?
            * SL: This is a little complicated, with all the namespaces. ‘-u’ extension has ‘key-value’ semantics, but other extensions do not necessarily. Need to read BCP 47 spec more carefully.
        * Ready for Stage 3?
        * DE: Interface to BCP 47. Identify script, region, language, etc from a given locale id. Has toString() to build a locale id in a string
        * DE: future extension for likelySubtag, etc
        * When Locale is passed to Intl.* API,  should Locale be treated specially instead of invoking toString() ?
        * DE: Yes
    3. [Intl.ListFormat](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-list-format)
        * Stage 2
        * [List elements are not formatted; non-strings throw](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-list-format/issues/4). Seem reasonable?
            * Sure
        * Ready for Stage 3?
            * Styles?
                21. Currently support unit, and regular ("and")
                22. NS: Should we rename regular to "and" and add negative lists as “or”?
                23. DIV: How about we call regular lists "conjunction" and add “disjunction” (linguistic terms rather than english-specific words “and”/”or”)
                24. ZB: I like this suggestion, since "and" and “or” seems too specific to English
                25. DIV: There are issues in languages about handling adjectives, etc.
                26. ZB: I’m not sure if we’ll support adjectives here.
                27. NC: Do we need gender information? ListFormat supports this...
                    1. SL: personList with gender
                28. ZB: For version 2, we could add gender maybe?
                29. NC: So, should we add "negative" for the first version?
                30. ZB: I’d prefer not to, unless you think it makes the API useless.
                31. SL: What’s the reason for not adding the "or"? Complexity?
                32. ZB: Actually I was more concerned about genders; this would be OK. But, I’d like help for V2 with figuring out the solution for relative time formats and lists--if anyone interested in this could think about potential solutions.
                33. NC: I think what we talked about RelativeTimeFormat should handle the data and a future proposal will be more automatic
                34. ZB: Date ranges handled separately by DateTimeFormat
                35. JS: This could be somewhat diminishing utility without compound times
                36. ZB: The most common requirement is single times.
                37. NC: We might want to change the name to something less friendly
        * [https://www.unicode.org/repos/cldr/trunk/specs/ldml/tr35-general.html#ListPatterns](https://www.unicode.org/repos/cldr/trunk/specs/ldml/tr35-general.html#ListPatterns)
5. Future meetings
    1. Does the two-hour, once a month format work well?
    2. Feedback about prioritization, running meeting, etc
    3. Is Feb 16th a good next meeting time?
        * JS: Put up the actual proposal ahead of time for the next meeting.
        * NC: At least a week before the meeting
        * Move the meeting 45 minutes earlier for friendliness for European time

Conclusion: All three proposals good for Stage 3 in TC39

