November 14 Attendees:

- Shane Carr - Google i18n (SFC), Moderator
- Leo Balter - Bocoup (LEO)
- Jeff Walden - Spidermonkey (JSW)
- Romulo Cintra - CaixaBank (RCA), MessageFormat Working Group Liaison
- Younies Mahmoud - Google i18n (YMD)
- Frank Yung-Fong Tang - Google i18n, V8 (FYT)
- Daniel Ehrenberg - Igalia (DE)
- Caio Lima - Igalia (CLA)
- Richard Gibson - OpenJS foundation, Oracle (RGN)
- Myles C. Maxfield - Apple (MCM)
- Ujjwal Sharma (USH)
- Craig Cornelius - Google i18n (CCN)
- Zibi Braniecki - Mozilla (ZB)
- Long Ho - Dropbox, Format.js, react intl (LHO)
- Steven Loomis - IBM (SRL)

Standing items:

- [Discussion Board](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/projects/2)
- [Status Wiki](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/wiki/Proposal-and-PR-Progress-Tracking) -- please update!
- [Abbreviations](https://github.com/rwaldron/tc39-notes/blob/HEAD/delegates.txt)

## Next Meeting

December 12, 10am PST (6pm GMT)

[Calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=unicode.org_nubvqveeeol570uuu7kri513vc%40group.calendar.google.com)

## Liaison Updates

### MessageFormat Working Group

- [Mailing list](https://groups.google.com/a/chromium.org/forum/#!forum/message-format-wg)

RCA: Sent an invite for the first meeting on 25th of November.  I plan to share what I've collected in previous meetings from stakeholders.  We will define a roadmap and figure out the next steps.

## PR Status Updates (Max 15 Minutes)

### Normative: Add calendar and numberingSystem options (#175)

- [PR](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/175)
- Anba found problems; FYT is fixing fixed them in V8.
- FYT flip the bit to ship it in Chrome m80. (with #351 and #349)
- Last month: JSW is looking into SpiderMonkey.

JSW: Anba finished the patch I had sent out.  Only in nightly.

SFC: Do we have tests and docs?

JSW: We have a few of our own tests that should be upstreamed.

SFC: DE will delegate MDN and tests.

### Normative: Permit relatedYear and yearName in output (#351)

- [PR](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/351)
- FYT wrote tests in https://github.com/tc39/test262/commit/79591ae6c8f13f5c558576ad58846d80f33d0f0e
- LEO wrote: "I'd like to defer this to @littledan so you can pick the best description for relatedYear and yearName in their respective table."
- FYT flip the bit to ship it in Chrome m80 (w/ #175 and #349)
- Last month: LEO: I tried to resolve the conflict, but I would like to get that from Daniel, the author.

LEO: Yeah, resolving the conflict requires editing the table/paragraph.

DE: I'll follow up offline.  Can you point me to the thing that needs to be updated?

LEO: It's PR #351

DE: Might end up delegating this to CLA.

LEO: It's good to have an extra pair of eyes.  Resolving conflicts is a little bit tricky.

CLA: OK

### Normative: Allow calendar to determine choice of pattern (#349)

- [PR](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/349)
- Covered by above tests
- LEO wrote: "@littledan would you mind rebasing this one as well?"
- FYT flip the bit to ship it in Chrome m80. (with #351 and #175)
- Last month: DE to rebase the PRs.

SFC: Same status as #351, right?

LEO: Yeah.

SFC: DE, can you pick up the ball on both of these?

DE: SGTM

SFC: Do we need a SpiderMonkey implementation for this one?

JSW: Off the top of my head I don't think we do (choose locales in this way), but I'm not sure.

ZB: Don't we just call into ICU for that?

DE: Engines do different things.

SRL: I think I was supposed to get a test scenario for this.  But I think the locale data might be masked.

DE: When I looked into this previously, it seemed like V8 was not doing this masking, and the other engines weren't.  So it still would be nice to get broader support for this implemented.  If we still don't have a test case, we could follow up on that; maybe we could use the case that started all this, with the Chinese calendar.

SFC: Looking at Daniel’s PR - assuming ZB and JSW will follow up offline.

SRL: It seems that v8/Chrome calendar support is buggy, making it hard to reproduce the issue.

### Normative: Add fractionalSecondDigits option

- [PR](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/347)
- FYT addressed Anba's feedback
- SpiderMonkey shipped (in nightly builds)  - https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1568134
- Last month: FYT: I need to double-check with Anba if there are any other issues he has.
- Last month: there is an ICU bug we need to fix.  Both ICU-20738 and ICU-20739 are fixed

SFC: Mihai has written a bug fix that forces seconds to be included when fractional seconds are requested. It fixes two issues.

FYT: Which one?

SRL: No, on the previous PR.

FYT: Some math issue not addressed in the spec

SFC: Can FYT address MDN and tests for PR?

FYT: Ok.

### Normative: Add dayPeriod option

- [PR](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/346)
- Last month: Blocked by ICU
- SpiderMonkey patch awaiting for ICU patches - https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1569103
- Last month: blocked by [CLDR-13184](https://unicode-org.atlassian.net/browse/CLDR-13184)

FYT: Not much progress. Let’s time-box it.

SFC: CLDR issue not triaged yet. Make sure if we can get it triaged in the future. Should I try to get this in the next CLDR meeting?

SFC: I'll follow up with FYT offline.

### Previous PRs

Do we have MDN for these?

- https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/278
    - RCA: There are docs for supportedLocalesOf.  I don't see a difference on what was updated recently.
    - SFC: The docs don't say explicitly that the array is hardened.  Should they?

SFC: There is 1 PR I’m not sure about (which one?)

RCA: (missed)

SFC: Do we need document what is the type of array?

RCA: I can check this.

SFC: I think we don't need to document this.  Thoughts?

DE: Agreed.

## Proposal Status Updates

### Intl.ListFormat (Stage 3)

- [Proposal](https://github.com/zbraniecki/proposal-intl-list-format)
- [Firefox Bug](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1433306): likely to be reviewed/landed later this week
- [Test262 Tests](https://test262.report/features/Intl.ListFormat?date=2019-07-10): Good.
- [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ListFormat): Good.
- [MDN Bug](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-list-format/issues/37) Closed
- Main blocker: bug with `type: 'disjunction'` in Spanish, [#45](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-list-format/issues/45)
- Last month: JSW: Blocked by https://unicode-org.atlassian.net/browse/ICU-12863

SFC: I reviewed JSW's patch and it has been approved by ICU-TC with some additional modifications.  [PR](https://github.com/unicode-org/icu/pull/894).  Waiting on Frank for another review.

SFC: Still waiting on the LPM for data

SRL: I talked with George Rhoten at Apple, and he gave me a short list of locales that need this.  It wasn't clear if he had the data.  I need to copy my notes into the CLDR bug on this.  It's not clear whether this, being a data issue, should be blocking the PR or not.

YMD: We need to know if there are other languages that have the same problem as Spanish.

SRL: Korean and Maltese need exceptions as well.

YMD: Are you sure about Maltese?  I think they don't have exceptions.

SRL: For Maltese, there was a reform.

SRL: Does it prevent spec going forward.

SFC: Doesn’t want to move to stage 4 with this problem. It’s embarrassing.

SRL: But it's something that has been in production for some time.

DE: Is there any browser interest in shipping without this.

JSW: I'd feel more comfortable waiting until we've figured things out.

SRL: If this is a blocker because of support in a specific language, does that mean that you have resources (people) with information in those languages to fill out this list?

FYT: In theory, a browser could say they don't support Spanish.

DE: Do we have multiple implementations for this feature? This is a stage 4 requirement. Can we reach out to translators for more information on this?

SRL: If we're saying linguistically that there isn't currently data or implementations that is correct for users who are important, and that's blocking Stage 4, I would say that what are the criteria?

ZB: Mozilla can help here I think.  One thing we can do is expose ListFormat internally.  Then we can get feedback from every locale.  And it makes it easier from us to change if necessary, while getting feedback from translators. I would recommend exposing MozListFormat.

SFC: TO clarify, several Googlers have been working with our LPM to get information from a survey. However, that person has been swamped by other work. If we can get info from the Mozilla work, that would be helpful.

FYT: Should this be a blocker if other languages have the same problem?

SFC: We should have good support for top-tier languages such as Spanish.

FYT: Can we support this linguistically if we turn everything to “narrow”?

SRL: No, it’s only one letter so we can’t fix it this way.

DE: We can’t reason it out without actually fixing this. The data model does not allow output change as we intend.

YMD: We know there are languages that need fixes.  We already know what to do for Spanish.

SRL: The spec limits what we can do. This needs to be fixed.

SFC: I didn't know that this was also a spec problem.

SFC: Who is the spec champion. We can change the spec to allow this change.

DE: The solution depends on what kinds of dependencies exist in Spanish vs. other languages. We already have two implementations.
  We have a certain set of locales that already are working for Spanish.

SFC:  We know we have a problem on Spanish. (missed)

SFC: We don’t need to make a fancy formalization at this point. We need to move forward.

SRL: We should try to bring this to be discussed into CLDR.

SRL: We need some engineering work from CLDR to move forward on this.
Younies’s PR has data but no spec.

FYT: Third path is to ship what CLDR gives to us.

SFC: Objected to move forward without a solution to this issue.

Resolution: We will eventually come back to this issue.

### Intl.Locale (Stage 3)

- [Proposal](https://github.com/zbraniecki/proposal-intl-locale)
- [Firefox Bug](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1433303)
- [Firefox Bug 2](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1522070)
- [Test262 Tests](https://test262.report/features/Intl.Locale?date=2019-07-10): Good.
- [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Locale) Live Examples - OK
- [MDN Bug](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale/issues/70) Closed
- Previously: André Bargull (@anba) also has an implementation that is on the review queue for mozilla.
- Last month: Intl.Locale landed in SpiderMonkey!  The feature is enabled, but only if you flip a preference.
- Last month: RCA:  JVA Merged  live examples for MDN
- Last month: ZB to sort issues to v1/v2 on the Intl.Locale repository.

SFC: this was shipped in SpiderMonkey. ZB, can you update us on this?

ZB: The updates are just editorial.

DE: I’m a little confused. It seems that there are some concerns about the implementation from JSW.

JSW: Concerned that in these patches, the behavior is different from
Canonicalized LangTag would not do the same as … THere may (or may not) be an issue, but now JSW cannot find the problem that Andre Bargull had pointed out, and which he had earlier thought was .

DE: There may be a simple solution, but Andre is usually right.

FYT: It seems to be an issue of 402 related with ??? rather than with this proposal.

DE: Do we want to assume that Andre problem is related with what FYT proposed.

JSW: Having trouble fInding the change.

DE: Do we want to delay this to propose this to Stage 4 until we get this solved.

JSW: Yes. I’m worried about users having 2 different ways of using this.

DE: JSW, would you be able to cc: those concerned about this?

JSW: Yes, will do.

DE: Clarified that this is no longer a Dec, 2019 Stage 4 candidate.

*later:*

JSW: I looked back and the concern I had is invalid.  ([Version 34 of TR35](https://www.unicode.org/reports/tr35/tr35-53/tr35.html#Locale_Extension_Key_and_Type_Data) had extra requirements, “Although the order of attribute s or keyword s does not matter, this specification defines the canonical form as below:”, that concerned me -- but [Version 36](http://www.unicode.org/reports/tr35/tr35-57/tr35.html#Locale_Extension_Key_and_Type_Data) removes them.)

CLA: I would like to see the spec.  I'm not sure I can handle all the slide decks.

ZB: I'm happy to help with this.  I'll be available in December so I can present.

DE: Do you think this will fully land and ship in Firefox soon?

JSW: I think we can do that, yeah.  I'll file a bug to get us moving on that.

### Intl.RelativeTimeFormat (Stage 3)

- [Proposal](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-relative-time)
- [Test262 Tests](https://test262.report/features/Intl.RelativeTimeFormat?date=2019-07-10): Good.
- [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/RelativeTimeFormat): Good.
- Last month: LHO volunteered to help out here.

TODO: Clarify champion

SFC: There are several open issues. Dropbox had opened a PR, and LHO has been willing to take more ownership.

DE: I think those changes are editorial. Other issue is also editorial (about non ??? value)

DE: Doesn’t think they should block Stage 4, so we are on track for this.
LHO: What is “editorial”?
DE: Clarified.

LHO: We maintain some polyfills, and it is not possible to follow the specification right now.

FYT: Seems to be a bug fix.

DE: I suggest you follow up with his suggestion and make a new PR that takes it. Thanks for your help!

CLA: I got some focus on it this week.  I was able to use this spec on my production Firefox.  I would like to know if this is a candidate for Stage 4.  I will be going to propose this for Stage 4 in the next meeting if you agree.

ZB: I think we are.

JSW: I think so too.

CLA: I will prepare the slide deck then.  I will be getting context on all open issues we have, and open PRs against the spec.

SFC: Pointed out the status page for Relative Time Format - there are checkboxes all across the row.

DE: Does this include FormatToParts?

ZB: Yeah.

SFC: This is exciting that it’s ready to move forward. Thanks!

### Intl.NumberFormat Unified API Proposal (Stage 3)

- [Proposal](https://github.com/sffc/proposal-unified-intl-numberformat)
- [Test262 Tests](https://test262.report/features/Intl.NumberFormat-unified/intl402): Only 4.
- [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/NumberFormat): Does not contain examples for this proposal.
- [MDN Bug](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-unified-intl-numberformat/issues/50)
- [Test262 Bug](https://github.com/tc39/test262/issues/2233)
- [SpiderMonkey](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1566410)
- Last month: RCA: We only have static examples , and missing documentation for Sign Display [MDN]

RCA: No updates related about the Sign Display Documentation on MDN

SFC: I have a PR to fix several of the open issues.  Still a few more.

SFC: Status is a) lot of editorial-only issues, b) a minor behavior issue to be addressed later.
Some of the editorial issues are already addressed. Most of the requirements are OK. SpiderMonkey is now shipping behind a flag. There’s a minor issue with MDN.

DE: Are we ready to move to S4?

SFC: Are there any other issues before we flip flag?

CLA: About Firefox.  I saw a bug that it's marked as shipped in Nightly, we're able to use it.  I'm not super into the context on how shipping happens in Firefox.  Is this something that gets disabled in Firefox stable?

ZB: it’s enabled in 70, and a flag needs to be flipped to allow use. Currently it;s not accessible to any web users. He’d like to make it available to some users.

DE: Why not flip now?

JSW: From what I remember, there were ICU issues, some of which might have been fixed.  But some of the issues around sign display, etc.  So minor issues that may or may not… as long as the spec is defining it correctly, we could move forward.  IMplementations may have some small differences, esp. due to relying on CLDR info. So it's one of those awkward places where the spec is OK, but if people using ICU can't implement it correctly, it's in this weird place.

SFC: Can provide context on this. The main issue that was an ICU bug was how to show the sign on values that are not zero but round to zero for display. ICU has been updated and the PR has landed. However, it’s not available until ICU67 in February. V8 did not cherry pick the change. It’s about 500-600 lines of code, which is big. It’s really not a big issue, very much an edge case.

ZB: Clarify if ICU66 vs. 67 for Feb. 2020.

SFC: ICU67 is the main release. ICU66 may be skipped. The timing of these is to accommodate ICU13 for Android.

DE: It would still provide value to users to move forward without the round-to-zero fix. JSW agrees.

JSW: There’s not too much work to change a small number of IFDEFs, and will be possible in the next few weeks.

SFC: Wait to February vs. earlier?

DE: It's good enough that if this is on a path to stable, we can move to Stage 4.

CLA: Slide deck - who/when to update?
SFC: will follow up with CLA offline, but is OK with CLA presenting, Exciting that this second proposal will also go to Stage 4.
December meeting will be week after TC39 (SF meeting)



### DateTimeFormat dateStyle & timeStyle (Stage 3)

- [Proposal](https://github.com/zbraniecki/proposal-ecma402-datetime-style)
- [Test262 Tests](https://test262.report/features/Intl.DateTimeFormat-datetimestyle): 16 tests.
- [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DateTimeFormat): Options documented (Missing Browser Compat-data)
- [MDN Bug](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-datetime-style/issues/33)
- [Firefox Bug](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1557718)
- [SpiderMonkey](https://searchfox.org/mozilla-central/source/toolkit/components/mozintl/mozIntl.jsm#830)
- Previously: V8 ship with Chrome 76. In SpiderMonkey (not exposed). JV: I'm working on the MDN docs with RC.  We have an issue to track.
- Previously: JSW: dateStyle/timeStyle that we mentioned last meeting also still on the list of "we should do the minor polishing needed to ship"
- Last month: RCA - JVA started working on Compat-data this week [MDN]
- Last month: JSW: We are waiting on ICU issues being fixed.

RCA: There is no PR started the PR for Compat-data

SFC: Are the blockers big problems or smaller concerns? There are also items on the Issues list. Ready for Stage 4?

ZB: Not in favor of December - action item is to consider for Stage 4 in Feb, but cannot commit.

SFC: We should propose to stage 4 when we are comfortable.

ZB: I would like to have some help during the next month

SFC: Anyone up for helping there.

DE: WHat needs to be resolved before S4?

ZB: Two issues may still be normative, not just editorial.

SFC: These need to be evaluated closely for severity on PR and ICU as well and no one has been able to do this yet,

DE: Would be very happy to help LHO or someone else come up to speed (possibly code champion) on this.

DE: These are probably not big issues, but need to verify.


### Intl.DateFormat.prototype.formatRange (Stage 3)

- [Proposal](https://github.com/fabalbon/proposal-intl-DateTimeFormat-formatRange)
- [Firefox Bug](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1496584)
- [Test262 Tests](https://test262.report/browse/intl402/DateTimeFormat/prototype/formatRange): Good.
- [MDN](): https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DateTimeFormat/formatRange
- [MDN Bug](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-DateTimeFormat-formatRange/issues/12)
- Previously: V8 ship with Chrome 76. The tests are all in.  We are in good shape. Spidermonkey intends to implement, can’t commit to any timeline. JV: We have an issue to track formatRange for me and RC. VY: Test262 is complete; I reviewed the PRs a while ago.
- Previously: FBN: Currently this is blocked by 4 issues that were filed against ICU.  My intent is to start working on the issues in the next 1-2 months.  It means though that it is released in the Spring release of ICU.
- Last month: RCA - Interactive examples for  formatRange already landed, waiting for formatRangeToParts to be merged[MDN]

SFC: Felipe is leading this.

FBN: There are a few ICU issues open.  FYT took over some of them.  One of them is bigger, but hopefully that will get into the next ICU release.

DE: What types of issues are they?

FBN: Most of them are either for instance ICU not respecting taking interval formats or the formats don’t have proper support for date style or time style.
There is now an inconsistency in output.

SFC: We hope that this is just an ICU change.

DE: These issues seem to block S4.

FBN: Yes, at least the major. Not just the C-binding, but also that date/time styles not yet supported without an ugly workaround. Date interval format vs Date Format have different results, and they should be the same. Need to resolve this.

FYT: Could we work around this internally rather than waiting for a spec change and ICU update?

SFC: Yes, perhaps.  There's the other constructor intent issue though that could be a behavior change.

### Intl.DisplayNames (Stage 3)

- [Proposal](https://github.com/tc39-transfer/proposal-intl-displaynames)
- [Firefox bug](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1557727)
- Advanced to Stage 3 in TC39 Oct meeting
- Add “calendar” option to get name for “month”, “weekday”, “quarter” and “dayPeriod”
- Last month: LEO: Working on the tests, planning to have them done before the next TG2 meeting.

LEO: Work in progress, finishing before the TC39 meeting. Missing tests for `supportedLocales` and `of`, mostly.

FYT: Starting to implement in V8, now in code review. How to deal with 13 month years? The leap month in Chinese is not the same as in other calendars, not always the same numeric value for month.

SFC: Please make recommendation for next month’s meeting. Agreed.

RCA: Should we move without any implementation?

LEO: I think we could get started on docs and test.  On tests, we have some initial tests.  We are missing tests for supportedLocalesOf. There will be adjustment as soon as FYT gives more information.

SFC: This is our newest Stage 3 proposal.

LEO: It would be very nice to see this shipping soon, perhaps in Feb 2020. It depends on getting small parts defined. He has hope for it by Feb. 2020.

FYT: Doesn’t think it can go to S4 by Feb. 2020.

JSW: There are bugs posted that must be resolved.

### Intl.Segmenter (Stage 2)

- [Proposal](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-segmenter)
- Previously: extended discussion about RGN's proposed changes. Additional deep dive meeting with ICU stakeholders.
- Previously: RGN: My plan still remains to push for advancement at the next TC39 meeting.

RGN: I have a draft PR for incorporating and documented all the changes we talked about earlier this year!  The README looks good, the spec text is on its way.  I just have one more issue to resolve before I can finalize it, which is the boundary behavior of the direct access methods.

SFC: Do you think this is Stage 3 material for December?

RGN: It should be ready by December.

DE: I think proposals should be ready for reviewers well before the meeting.

RGN: Spec text is on the way and will be ready for review.

DE: For S3 reviews, reviewers should get back to proposer 2 weeks before the meeting, which means reviewers need access sooner. He suggests discussion in December, and that there isn’t enough time for S3.

SFC: We discussed in depth about how the looks like and we don’t have much do discuss. If spec is out and we get reviews, we can ask for Stage 3 in December.

DE: It the spec is out before next week, then it’s possible.

RGN: It will be in the PR tomorrow, and will be merged soon thereafter.

SFC: It will be good to present S3 proposal to TC39 if possible rather than just discussing it.

RGN: At last meeting there was a discussion, so the group has been briefed.

### Temporal (Stage 2)

- [Proposal](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-temporal)
- Preliminary spec text checked in; waiting for additional updates from Ms2ger

SFC: If interested, look at this offline.

## Discussions

- [Board](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/projects/2)

### Unicode Properties

- [Issue](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/90)
- [repo](https://github.com/srl295/es-unicode-properties/issues)

SRL: Since the last discussion, I have addressed some of the use case concerns.  There were questions on what the use cases were.  I believe I have addressed those in my proposal repo.  If that's not the case, please continue.  The big question, which is a little mystifying to me, is why not just use regexes?  I know regexes are an important tool that are widely used, but I think I show the use case.  Under the FAQ on the repo… https://github.com/srl295/es-unicode-properties#why-not-just-use-regex

MCM: The repo lists segmentation and parsing as use cases.  But don't we already support those?

SFC: We have a proposal for segmentation but not parsing.

SRL: But this is also useful for polyfilling.

MCM: If there's demand for the higher-level APIs, we should implement them directly.

FYT: Isn't parsing usually based on regular expressions?

SRL: The point is analysis of text.  If you look at code that's doing any type of analysis of text, one of the common operations you get is, isDigit, isLetter, isUpper.

FYT: Which you can do in regex.

SRL: But then you can invert that.  What is the script of this text?

MCM: You can use regex for matching.

SRL: Look at my example.  You want to extract the Unicode property of a digit.  This is not yes/no; this is extracting the property of the character.

RGN: This is an interrogation, not a test.

MCM: It seems we should just add number parsing to 402.

SFC: This is not the time/place to re-litigate the issue of adding parsing to 402.

FYT: Since we're not adding parsing to 402, the programmer needs this API in order to implement their own parser.

SRL: If you have some text, and you're trying to determine what script it's based on… if you want to determine, what is the script of a certain character?  There's no way that you can reasonably do that with a regex, because it's a test.  You'd need to iterate over all scripts that you know about, or all 4-letter codes, and see which one matches.  If you look at text analysis in libraries and code, something like Zawgyi analysis, you have to figure out what's in it.  If you're doing lexicographic analysis, etc.  And yes, you can implement some of this in regex, but if you're trying to determine what's in a string, whether than putting something in a pre-defined category, you need to know the properties

The other point: these are fundamental properties. So from the principle of putting access to low-level information in ECMAScript, this access is warranted.

MCM: A string can have a whole lot of content.  So if you want to look at the script, you probably want to look at the string as a whole. Segmentation is a better API for this use case.

SRL: That’s only one example. There are 80 different properties that be relevant to any code point.

SFC: Let’s list out use cases. This could still be material for Stage 1, and we can answer this question within Stage 1.

FYT: ??


SRL: My proposal was to expose the Unicode character database by its property name, which is already being used in regex land.  So there's already a well-defined namespace for these properties. There’s a clear difference between an interrogation for the property value vs. a regex giving a boolean result.

SFC: Does anyone, MCM, have objection to pushing this to S1 to investigate the use cases?

MCM: I think so.  It's a requirement for a web standard.

FBR: Stage 1 only means that TC39 is interested in investigating this subject area.

SRL: Is this a string properly vs. ???

DE: The main thing we should do from here is reach out and ask for use cases, and stages are not so relevant. Stage 1 will not provide any practical value of S0, so let’s work on the use cases at this time.

LEO: All of this points to my next topic on this.  I still believe this should be a 262 proposal.  I went to the last TC53 meeting (embedded systems), and talking to POH, I think there is an interest in working with Unicode properties.  So he's probably someone to whom you can reach out.  So I think this might be brought to 262 where we can find use cases.

SFC: A real benefit of presenting for S1 is that it will raise awareness and may prompt more use cases.

DE: S0 vs. S1 - not so much value for pushing S1 in December.

FYT: What LEO said is right.  Because regex is in 262, not 402.  So even if we find a use case, it should sit in 262.

DE: Do you regret unicode properties in regex?

MCM: I think there are many use cases for regexes.

SRL: So why not the reverse use case?

MCM: It's about use cases. So far, the use cases we’ve seen can be better satisfied by a different shape of API

FYT: We really need to build up use cases to make a stronger case.

SFC: let’s take this discussion offline.

LEO: Don’t need to shift the whole API to accommodate.

SFC: There are people here who know a lot about Unicode properties.

### Should accounting format have a special field?

- [Issue](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-unified-intl-numberformat/issues/68)

SFC: Should accounting format have a special field? #68
If so, it would be a blocker for S4.

SFC: This seems OK as is.

FYT: Since the value is known by the caller, is this needed?

SFC: CLDR doesn’t have data for this.

FYT: We need a use case.

SFC: Proposes that we close this issue. No objections were noted.

### Intl.DurationFormat (stage 0 pitch from SFC)

SFC: will be needed for temporal. THere’s a problem with Duration, however. We need a champion.

ZB: Where does this fit?

SFC: We need a champion to work on these issues.

ZB: this is important for video/audio/media players.

DE: What would be needed in the API?

FYT: Volunteered to be the champion. Will work with DE on details for proposing in 2020.
