Attendees: Leo Balter (LB), Ben Coe (BC), Felipe Balbotin (FB), Frank Tang (FT), Isaac Durazo (ID), Jeff Walden (JW), Myles C. Maxfield (MM), Richard Gibson (RG), Romulo Cintra (RG), Valerie Young (VY), Shane Carr (SC), Zibi Braniecki (ZB), Jack Horton (JH), Craig Cornelilus (CC), Daniel Ehrenberg (DE), Romulo Cintra (RC), Phil Dunkel (PD), Joseph Kaptur (JK)

1. ECMA-402 editing and management
    1. ECMA-402 editor group: Leo invites Valerie and Isaac
        1. Using project management
        2. LB: (introduces VY and ID)
        3. VY: I'm excited to be working on this specification.
        4. ID: I'm excited to support VY and LB on these efforts.  I specialize in project management.
        5. SC: I'm happy to see VY and ID joining ECMA 402.
        6. (ID and VY are approved to join)
    2. (Everyone introduces themselves)
    3. Issue Triage
        1. [https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues) 
        2. New labels: component and status
        3. Assign component owners?
        4. The [small](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Asmall) label is for issues that can be fixed via a PR; great for a first issue!
        5. SC: I added new components and statuses.  Please look especially for the "small" label for great first issues.
        6. LB: Thanks for doing the triage
        7. RC: Can we set up a Kanban board or other project management?
        8. SC: That's a good idea; I'll follow up with RC and ID offline.
        9. ID: I'm used to project boards on GH and I like this idea too.
        10. SC: Can we assign component owners to keep track of component related backlog?
        11. LB: We could make a "facilitator group" with a mentorship model.
        12. RC: Maybe not just component-based but something that works across components.
        13. SC: Lets start and email thread and discuss outside of meeting. RC/ID/LB/VY will work on project management and this idea. Anyone else interested please reach out.
    4. ECMA-402 as TC39 Task Group
        1. [Draft Terms of Reference](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GxZ29px1s3kvpv86XwrcMFGOH8VCJajYiMsAvQON4BA/edit?usp=sharing)
        2. SC: Formalizing subcommittee as task group. We are official right now. I think this an opportunity to formalize what our goals are. Task groups regularly have "visions" written out, describing what they are working for. If we layout in broad terms it can help with out decision making.
        3. LB: This does not make a new TC, so there is no legal work for ECMA members. Everything will be as it was but formalized. Formalizing meetings at Task Group (TG). Good to have a convener. Code of conduct/code of conduct team from TC39 will apply to this TG.
        4. SC: please review the "Program of Work" section. Please read off line and comments. Let’s return to this at the end of the meeting.
2. Bugs/PRs against ECMA-402
    1. Questions from [Various Unicode BCP 47 locale identifiers issues](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/330)
    2. LB: I've reviewed this. There were 3 remaining questions, in the last comment on the PR.  (reads out the three points)
    3. FT: Mark Davis has been making a lot of changes to UTS 35, like the canonical syntax.  Previously we've delegated to UTS 35 for details, but the latest UTS 35 is not published yet.
    4. ZB: Since currently the Unicode spec is fairly live, I would prefer to wait for it to stabilize.  It seems ⅔ of the issues raised by LB is in the specification, and we can specify that explicitly.
    5. FT: The other thing is, we could go back to Mark and raise this issue and ask if it should be addressed in UTS 35.
    6. ZB: And to be clear, we should defer to Unicode to specify these points.
    7. SC: Yes, I agree with that direction.
    8. FT: Let's follow this and reference the public spec once it is updated.
3. Stage 3 proposals:
    1. [Intl.Locale](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale)
        1. Chrome is shipping in m74.
        2. SC: Great work, FT!
        3. Other implementer status? Timeline for Stage 4?
        4. MM: No status (for Safari)
        5. ZB: Internally (at Mozilla) we are working on our internal locale representation.  Once that refactoring is done then we can work on Intl.Locale
        6. JW: Yeah, some of the BCP 47 locale identifier details need to be worked on a bit before we continue working on Intl.Locale.  One question is, do we allow this syntax that is temporarily invalid (pending spec issues being resolved)?
    2. [Intl.Segmenter](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-segmenter)
        1. Break-based version (TODO: add link)
        2. DE: I signed up for writing a new spec for writing the break-based specification, but I didn't have time. RG, are you interested?
        3. RG: Yes! Working on this and will have examples by tomorrow and probably also a PR by Monday.
    3. [Unified NumberFormat](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-unified-intl-numberformat)
        1. [Unit format data size](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-unified-intl-numberformat/issues/39)
            1. [Continued discussion from last meeting](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/blob/6020597ee3852c38a94a16bf8f796019ad2569c5/meetings/notes-2019-01-17.md)
            2. Discuss: Data size figures for iOS?
            3. Discuss: Split out unit formatting?
            4. MM: I will check on Safari by the end of the week
            5. ZB: I did my homework but I don't have a good answer.  It's hard to pinpoint a person to make that decision.  My experience is that it's hard until we see the consequence.  I would love to be more clear ahead of time, but that's not really how it works in the organization.
            6. JW: For this sort of thing, we make the change, then someone sees Firefox increased in size, then they either complain or they don't complain.  In the 10s of kB, probably they don't notice, in the 100s, maybe, and by 1 MB, they probably do notice.  The people who make this call are far away from JS.
            7. ZB: My experience is maybe 200 kB is OK.
            8. DE: Remove units and ask browsers to ship units.
            9. SC: I would like us to reach a conclusion. Splitting out unit formatting and ship the rest -- now unit formatting is back to the same state a year ago. If we couple units with the rest of unified number format. It’s bigger, but we get a lot! 
            10. FT: What if we start with a very small list of units?
            11. MM: Maybe let each browser pick for themselves?  Having long form of common units is more valuable than having all the forms of uncommon units.
            12. SC: Lets consider launching with the highest use/most popular units as Frank said.
            13. CC: Leaving out imperial units would work for most of the world!
            14. SC: That certainly is an option; product teams though probably want imperial units.
            15. FT: Lets just decide on a reasonable set, not try to figure out what is the most important.
            16. MM: Lets have kilometers and miles, if not other imperial units.
            17. SC: Initial launch, all browsers should support the same units, instead of not knowing what units are available where. Next step: I’ll make a proposal of less than or equal to 10 units, should be below 100 kb. Keep long form.
            18. ZB: Sound great. FT: Sounds great
    4. [Intl.RelativeTimeFormat](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-relative-time)
        1. Any issues blocking Intl.RelativeTimeFormat.prototype.formatToParts implementation?
        2. Timeline for Stage 4?
        3. FT: I think Mozilla is waiting for ICU 64, and ICU 64 is being launched later this month.
        4. ZB: Yeah, there's a bug to update to ICU 64
        5. JW: I don't think there's too much more after ICU 64 and the formatToParts stuff.
        6. SC: MM, is there a Safari status?
        7. MM: I can't comment
        8. FT: Could you invite the implementers to the meeting?
        9. MM: I'll see what I can do
    5. [Intl.ListFormat](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-list-format)
        1. [PR40](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-list-format/pull/40): To make the error message meaningful, need to rollback part of [PR36](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-list-format/pull/36)
            1. FT: (explains the issue)
            2. JW: It seems like implementations already have some flexibility here
            3. FT: Are you saying this change doesn't impact implementation?
            4. JW: The way we implemented it would not be exactly in the way the steps highlight.
            5. SC: I don't have a strong opinion; who is the champion on Intl.ListFormat?  Looks like ZB is listed; do you have an opinion?
            6. ZB: I think I prefer to fall back… I think I prefer the red part.
            7. SC: I also have a slight preference for the red section.
            8. FT: Let’s close the issue, not fix.
        2. [formatToParts: return the index? #41](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-list-format/issues/41)
            1. SC: Add index similar to date interval format. Expose in ECMA script.
            2. (Discussion of reordering of lists. Reordering allowed by CLDR - discussed in comments of issue)
            3. LB: Doesn’t seem painful to add this property
            4. MM: do we actually know a locale that needs this though?
            5. LB: the cost is so small but it could be helpful.
            6. SC: It seems like a clean solution. Even without languages that change order. It seems like an ergonomic change. If wanted to highlight the 4th element I’d have to do a loop/keep track of index. Could just check index.
            7. MM: Output isn’t an array.
            8. FT: API’s intention is for changing the dom to add result to dom tree. If you are going through the loop anyway, you can keep. This information can be naturally recovered.
            9. SC: It can be naturally recovered. But if you are doing a map or a filter, then having an index there could help
            10. MM: most code will want to operate on every value. If the index can be anything, then the JS code will have to keep arbitrary mapping, instead of assuming by 1 incrementing
            11. RG: SEems like we don’t need it. Only if there is a use case that needs it. Without it, I’d omit it.
            12. LB: Is this needed for right to left languages? We need a reason for adding. If we can visualize an example, this should help us identifying the use cases. 
            13. SC: Only for unit format (example in issue comment). I will follow up with the case and see if it is relevant. Summary opinion of group -- unless there a real use case, the strong recommendation is to not include it.
    6. BigInt.prototype.toLocaleString and Intl.NumberFormat
        1. Dan to present presentation arguing for separate Intl.NumberFormat.prototype.formatBigInt method ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1L19IEMWwfGyKFbaA1FAKIl2PEuSoQXtSOvVQLHJV5g0/edit#slide=id.p))
        2. FT: DE has two PRs and they are competing. Let's not talk because he is not here.
4. Stage 2 proposals:
    1. [intl-datetime-style](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-datetime-style)
        1. Dan to present for Stage 3. Any concerns?
        2. Thanks for the [editorial patch](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-datetime-style/pull/22), Frank
        3. LB: It looks good to be presented next week for stage 3.
        4. FT: I also support advance.
    2. [DateTimeFormat formatRange](https://github.com/fabalbon/proposal-intl-DateTimeFormat-formatRange)
        1. Felipe to present for Stage 3. Any concerns?
        2. FB: All issue resolved, proposal reviewed. Ok for TC39 next week?
        3. LB: Has my editorial sign off.
        4. FB: Kevin Smith will review this week.
        5. SC: LGTM
5. Stage 1 proposals:
    1. [Intl.DisplayNames](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-displaynames)
        1. [Need of this API](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-displaynames/issues/21)
            1. Discuss: What kinds of input from developers would help us understand if these features are well-motivated?
            2. FT: (explains the issue)
            3. ZB: This API comes back recurrently and I don't see it stopping.  The question is, should we expose more than we already have?  The API is a bit open-ended; it's tempting to expose bits we don't use for datetime formatting yet.  So there are sort-of two types of bits we could expose.  Unless there's a reason *not* to expose, I would like to at least expose the bits we already expose.
            4. MM: I agree that the most concerning part is figuring out where this ends.
            5. JK: As a user of this technology, I think it is useful to have a canonical name for a language or a region separate from the existing i18n infrastructure.  I'm having trouble articulating why, as a non-expert.  In pickers, it seems appropriate to have a canonical representation.
            6. RC: As part of the development team, it seems like these kinds of things should already be on the platform.  Currently we are storing these on the server and pulling it to the client.  This is good because (1) it's standard and (2) easy to implement.
            7. MM: It sounds like your strings are coming from two sources now, not one.  Doesn't that increase complexity?
            8. RC: In my case, in a place where I have to use this data in these parts, sometimes I load from server and we have to use it not in the best way.  If the data is already in the browser, we don't have to duplicate server calls.
            9. ZB: This is looping back.  One one hand, if you format a date, we give you a string that contains the word "Monday".  So you already have the second source exposed.  We already ship "Monday".  The question then is, since we already have Monday, why not just expose it, and the second question is, should we expose "English", since we don't have that exposed yet?
            10. RC: Making the API ergonomic is good, but let's not add extra size?
            11. FT: Another benefit is that this could reduce the bits on the internet.  Android and iOS have APIs for this.  See the comment from Translate team on the ticket.  I think that validates the need.
            12. ZB: For the record, I do think we should add language, script, and region.  I'm just saying that it's a different conversation.
            13. SC: Lets more forward with API design. Should we add language, region and script (which is already in the spec)?
            14. FT: Let's discuss whether the current spec as is is valid. For example, Daniel proposed emoji (?), but this is a separate issue (more data, etc).
            15. SC: Lets only consider exposing what is currently in the spec: language region script
            16. MM: I originally raised this issue. I’d like some explanation for why these strings are provided in the browser but others are not in the spec.  It gives us a criterion on where to stop adding more strings.
            17. SC: Ok who would like to do this.
            18. ZB: Also useful to understand the data trade off before deciding. I will draft the justification.
            19. FT: Should this be in the spec or the readme?
            20. MM: Spec, because it's fundamental to the spec's existence.
            21. ZB will follow up with a PR to the spec
        2. [dateSymbol issue](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-displaynames/issues/22)
        3. [Dialect control](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-displaynames/issues/20)
        4. [Should we rollback as 1:1 string/string from array/array](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-displaynames/issues/24)?
            1. FT: Roll back to one string in one string out.
            2. General agreement?
            3. RG: I do not object to rolling back, but I’d like to see multi-valued input come back because it seems to be a feature of nearly every use case.
            4. FT: How to handle error case.
            5. ZB: Two errors: (1) If one value is invalid, reject. (2) It all inputs are proper, but we don’t have data, should we format with best guess or return undefined.
            6. FT: Only concerned with (1).
        5. [Error Handling](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-displaynames/issues/23)

6. Other proposals:
    1. [navigator.ontimezonechange](https://github.com/whatwg/html/pull/3047) -- any interest?
7. Other topics:
    1. [Temporal](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-temporal)
        1. What needs to happen to Intl.DateTimeFormat in order to support Temporal?
        2. Champion?
    2. Polyfills
        1. Progress on Globalize.js wrappers?
        2. What form should the wrappers take and where should they be submitted?
        3. Note, excellent work with [https://github.com/wessberg/intl-list-format](https://github.com/wessberg/intl-list-format) and [https://github.com/wessberg/intl-relative-time-format](https://github.com/wessberg/intl-relative-time-format) !
    3. Documentation
        1. Discuss: Documentation process for Stage 3 API's
        2. RC: We can discuss offline along with project management.  It is more-or-less related.  We can put this with the rest of the tasks on that board.
    4. (added during the meeting): Separate repo for the meeting notes and agenda? Can use gh-pages like [https://tc39.es/tc39-notes/](https://tc39.es/tc39-notes/)
        1. SC: What is the advantage of splitting the repos?
        2. LB: (1) it keeps the repos light, and (2) lets us use GitHub Pages to publish the notes/agendas.
8. TC39 status update presentation: [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1wsTyg0d97zR7tpSNuu1wpTsplNfV0RMVh9e-e_2wIDg/edit)
9. Future meetings
    1. April 18th, 2019, 16:00 UTC
