# 2021-10-07 ECMA-402 Meeting
## Logistics

### Attendees
- Shane Carr - Google i18n (SFC), Co-Moderator
- Ujjwal Sharma - Igalia (USA), Co-Moderator
- Romulo Cintra - Igalia (RCA), Co-Moderator & MessageFormat Working Group Liaison
- Myles C. Maxfield - Apple (MCM)
- Philip Chimento - Igalia (PFC)
- Yusuke Suzuki - Apple (YSZ)
- Richard Gibson - OpenJS Foundation (RGN)
- Greg Tatum - Mozilla (GPT)
- Frank Yung-Fong Tang - Google i18n, V8 (FYT)
- Leo Balter - Salesforce (LEO)

### Standing items
- [Discussion Board](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/projects/2)
- [Status Wiki](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/wiki/Proposal-and-PR-Progress-Tracking) -- please update!
- [Abbreviations](https://github.com/tc39/notes/blob/master/delegates.txt)
- [MDN Tracking](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402-mdn)
- [Meeting Calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=unicode.org_nubvqveeeol570uuu7kri513vc%40group.calendar.google.com)
- [Matrix](https://matrix.to/#/#tc39-ecma402:matrix.org)

## Status Updates

### Editor's Update

USA:  We tried to address most of the small issues , I plan to review some other big PR soon.

RGN: I addressed the editorial PR by Shane, it was blocking my review.

USA: That is perfect, thanks. I will merge it soon.

LEO : At the moment not able to work. My availability is limited and not able to help. I talked to ECMA management about the PDF version.
### MessageFormat Working Group


RCA : We don’t have a big update, started writing the spec, more frequent meetings, prioritization. This is the status quo. Go through the updates list.

FYT : There is anything blocking Intl.Segmenter ? 

GPT : Will check actual status later 

LEO : It’s possible to have an ETA GPT ?


### Proposal Status Changes

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/wiki/Proposal-and-PR-Progress-Tracking



## Pull Requests

### Normative: Add new numbering system "tnsa"
https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/614

USA : We need TG1 consensus. Should we ref the Unicode table directly instead of manual updates?

SFC: We should decide together with editor what we can do this kind of PR we already have an open issue to [discuss this](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/584)

USA: We can have a template that ease going over changes of CLDR 

FYT: This particular table only means that the item that is added should be supported, but it can not be the only item that should be supported.

SFC: https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/584 

YSZ: This is not shipping in ICU yet, so in order to conform to the spec, we would need to be shipping ICU trunk.

FYT: We have 9 months for conformance, not tomorrow, because the spec is published once a year.

SFC: There is a meta question: how quickly should ECMA-402 follow ICU/CLDR? What should the time delay be? Should we wait for stable ICU to ship? Maybe some buffer time after this?

MCM: Answering this question is tricky for us, we’d post a text response in the thread instead. We will talk to our release engineering and propose this change to see if it is possible or re-raise this if there is some feedback.

FYT: This table is the minimal set not the maximal set. Maybe we can wait on merging this one.

MCM: We don’t mind presenting sooner or later, but we like the resolution here.
#### Conclusion
Approved 

### Editorial: Define a structured signature for PluralRuleSelect 
https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/613

(discussion notes here)

#### Conclusion

(approved or tabled?)

### Normative: Fix spec bugs in numberformat.html caused by Unified NumberFormat
https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/572

(discussion notes here)

#### Conclusion

(approved or tabled?)

### Normative: Add hourCycle to opt before passing to FormatMatcher
https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/571

(discussion notes here)
#### Conclusion

(approved or tabled?)


## Proposals and Discussion Topics


### Intl.Segmenter 

RGN: Should we move to Stage 4 ?

RGN: *presents slides* [Slides Intl.Segmenter](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1LOOt4WPvQdOK3banHkz1V8sdl8Z-7Z9jXBRRS9Ek8-M/edit#slide=id.g7d446dfcaa_0_6)

LEO: Which implementations are shipping?

RGN: V8 and JSC

FYT: Want to point out that test262 have a good coverage

USA: Let’s fix the MDN PR and get it merged before TC39.
#### Conclusion
Intl.Segmenter can proceed to Stage 4.
### Intl.LocaleInfo: #49

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale-info/pull/49/files

FYT: Anba suggested this change, can we get some reviews on this?
#### Conclusion

PR Approved
### ECMA 402: #574

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/574

FYT: This is a normative change?

USA: This looks like an editorial change

RGN : I agree it looks like editorial no normative change

FYT: We should be careful and validate if this is PR is really editorial and non normative

USA: I can ask implementers if this change would change the actual implementation or generate any regression before we merge this change

#### Conclusion
We have to make sure that this PR is validated before we can merge 

PR Approved
### ECMA 402: #574

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/574

FYT: This is a normative change?

USA: This looks like an editorial change

RGN : I agree it looks like editorial no normative change

FYT: We should be careful and validate if this is PR is really editorial and non normative

USA: I can ask implementers if this change would change the actual implementation or generate any regression before we merge this change

#### Conclusion
We have to make sure that this PR is validated before we can merge 

PR Approved





### Intl.DurationFormat: 

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-duration-format/

USA: At this point we want to ask for Stage 3 in the next October meeting? 

USA: Any questions about the design works ? 

MCM: We aren’t prepared to provide any feedback 

USA:  Could we follow up offline then we can review the proposal

FYT : To ease the revision could you point out the most important points on those PR’s ?

USA: I can finish all requirements for moving stage then reach everybody address all concerns to move stage ?

SFC: We should address all needs and concerns to move to the next stage.

FYT: I don’t think this is ready yet, I think we need to finish the spec first before asking for this. 

SFC : Last TC39 meeting Ujjwal presentend and we gave a feature complete implementation, if we can work with stage 3 reviewers offline and finish in the next days we have enough time to get to stage 3 this month

MGM: What's the urgency to reach stage 3 this month 

USA: This proposal is stage 2 for long time with feature complete implementation

SFC: This proposal is likely to require changes and  some ICU updates, then if we reach stage 3 we can ask for those changes to be included in ICU 71 and also affect the Temporal proposal. 

FYT : Do we have any feedback from reviewers ? 

USA: No feedback was provided, we wi

FYT :  MGM can you review this proposal before the next ECMA402 meeting ? 

YSZ: Sure

FYT: Do we have an agreement to look at this PR offline from Google and Apple someone from Mozilla ?

GPT: I can check it offline 

#### Conclusion

USA: We need to advance as much as we can on finishing the pending points of spec then reach all implementers to validate and be at the next meeting. 
### Normative: Add new numbering system "tnsa" (Continuation)

FYT: [...?] We have 9 months to conform.

SFC: How much time between the Unicode update and the ECMAScript update? We need to make sure there's a stable ICU with this feature shipped, so that implementations reasonably have the feature available to them.

YSZ: Makes sense.

MCM: We'll talk to release engineering and post a text response in the issue.

FYT: This table is the minimum set, not the maximum set, so we could hold this PR until the 2023 version if there are objections. It doesn't prevent anyone from adding it to their implementation.

YSZ: This works well if the feature is integrated in the ICU.
MCM :This works well, what does it mean ?

MCM: We prefer that feature to be removed from the spec but weren’t blocking others from shipping it
#### Conclusion


### Allow for implementations to retrieve settings from host environment #109
https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/109


MCM: When this issue was discussed in the past , we were concerned about fingerprinting 

USA: The plan would be prepare a detailed design document to review this in detail at this group

#### Conclusion
Work on document to be shared with group
### Intl.Segmenter v2
FYT : Next meeting will bring a new proposal for stage-0 related with current segmenter API, the idea is to have an “batch mode” implementation, I’m sharing the ideia in advance.

MCM: About the batch API we want to be aware of the performance cost, if possible to include all those details in the proposal, as second question whats’ is the difference between line breaks proposed in the past?

FYT: Probably not, one request we had was saying that we need file matrix for the line breaking, but we already have it. Houdini did not ship yet. We keep getting this feedback and they need a line breaking API.

RGN: I look forward to see the interface changes proposed for performance. We went back and forth on that and ended up on something that should work. I am sad that line break needed to be dropped, so I am excited about this. It has been my intention to have a Segmenter v2 for this.

MCM: There is a response we have to make but let’s just go through the agenda and discuss this next time.

RCA: Will you address these issues in the next meeting?

FYT: I’ll try to have Stage 0 for the next meeting  and ask for Stage 1.

#### Conclusion
Frank to present Stage 0 proposal next meeting.

### Temperature check for  Support ICU transliteration in ECMAScript - rough draft #560
https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/560

SFC: I just brought this to the meeting to have a temperature check and see how groups thinks about this

FYT: I worked with transliteration for a while. Transliteration in ICU is very generic. You have an input, some options and an output based on that. That is very generic. You could say “translate from English to German”. You have some degree of transliteration right now. It might be more practical to go for a certain type of transliteration. A lot of the CLDR files are not in great quality. We need to be careful of that to scope it well.

MCM: We want to speak in favour of transliteration, agreeing with what FYT said. We want to be sure that 

USA : In support of FYT said I think we should scope this feature and benchmark the Size vs Usage of this feature

MCM: This may  not fit on the JS but we need to choose carefully where this feature could fit,

FYT:  I have two suggestions: 1) hiragana/katana to latin 2) indic scripts to latin 

If you go to google translate, they include pronunciations, and I did it using ICU but it isn’t sufficient. This is neither practical nor good enough. If we can narrow it down to these, it would be good and useful.

MCM: I understand that this would have a big data size but is also used by a large number of people. Whatever we do one of the requirements is that this interoperability with <ruby> (CSS)






#### Conclusion
We need to figure out the right way to idealize this proposal


### Change Array.prototype.toLocaleString to use ListFormat #422
https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/422

SFC: Do you think this is a change that we want to make ? 

USA : What would be the default for this specific case when using an array 

FYT: We follow same format from the default of ListFormat

SFC: We should address a normative PR for this change

FYT: I volunteered to create a PR

GPT: What is the compatibility issue here

FYT: There will be a compatibility change but it will be quite simple.


GPT:  +1 (We should be aware of web compatibility changes)

USA: The methods should be subject of web compatibility concerns, because there is no deterministic output meaning implementations may change based on the amount of Data

YSZ: +1. The current impl allows nested Arrays. Can we handle nested arrays in listformat?

MCM: The solution would only make this change but also change the implementation to make nested arrays works

#### Conclusion

A PR to modify the spec and validate if there is any compatibility issue
