# 2026-04-16 ECMA-402 Meeting

## Logistics

### Attendees

- Shane Carr - Google i18n (SFC), Co-Moderator
- Jesse Alama - Igalia (JMN)
- Ujjwal Sharma - Igalia (USA), Co-Moderator
- Henri Sivonen - Mozilla (HJS)
- Eemeli Aro - Mozilla (EAO)
- Ben Allen - Igalia (BAN)
- Chris de Almeida - IBM (CDA)
- Daniel Minor - Mozilla (DLM)
- Yusuke Suzuki - Apple (YSZ)

### Standing items

- [Discussion Board](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/projects/2)
- [Status Wiki](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/wiki/Proposal-and-PR-Progress-Tracking) -- please update!
- [Abbreviations](https://github.com/tc39/notes/blob/master/delegates.txt)
- [MDN Tracking](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402-mdn)
- [Meeting Calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=unicode.org_nubvqveeeol570uuu7kri513vc%40group.calendar.google.com)
- [Matrix](https://matrix.to/#/#tc39-ecma402:matrix.org)

## Status Updates

### Updates from the Editors

USA: In position to cut new version of official spec, Era Monthcode and Temporal not in cut.

### Updates from the MessageFormat Working Group

EAO: Quiet, cancelled the last meeting because no agenda to discuss. Advancing work in W3C working group, which is already working on message resources.Getting a sense of we could define when the work here is done.

SFC: You mentioned that W3C is now working on Message Resources, is there a specific WG for that?

EAO: This is under the W3C i18n WG which had its charter to include incubation work including Message Resources.

USA: To clarify from earlier, their charter?

EAO: Yes

SFC: I know last semester the students from Bergen shared some work on MF, how can we help with adoption?

EAO: Someone who is in contact with the ICU folks we can help push the envelope with the ICU4C implementation, it doesn’t fully support MF yet. I had the JS implementation/polyfill and now there’s one for Elixir but we still need to finish this work in ICU.

SFC: Wasn’t aware ICU4C work was blocked on reviews. Do you have the contacts you require for this or could you use some help?

EAO: This was done mostly between Tim Chevalier and Mihai Nita, the former wrote the implementation and Mihai and other maintainers could help out with reviews.

SFC: Cannot have adoption before implementations. We should start thinking about what’s the plan here. The ball keeps getting tossed around, currently

USA: I still feel that it’s relevant without other initiatives turning out the way we hope.

EAO: The ask was to show industry adoption outside the working group itself, which continues to be a source of challenge. Message Resource group taking steps towards DOM implementation being a thing, if it gets more adoption in the DOM world, that’s another indicator that it should be included in JS.

SFC: Once we get ICU4C and ICU4X, now we have the Angular and React implementations and once we get some progress on Message Resources we might have enough to present to plenary with a cohesive story. If we present it right now without an ICU4C implementation, that’s not a great story on our end. If things move then it might happen in time for the July or Sept meetings but once things are ready, we should present it instead of doing it too soon.

### Updates from Implementers

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/wiki/Proposal-and-PR-Progress-Tracking

HJS: Firefox 150 is now in release candidate and is expected to ship on Tuesday of next week, replaces the normalizer backend with ICU4X, one web-exposed behavior, unpaired surrogates are replaced with replacement character. No one has complained. Also, collator backend is likewise ICU4X, in that case unpaired surrogates now collate as if they were replacement characters. Additionally, Hangul characters in search collation mode behave as in sort collation mode. We noticed that Montenegrin now picks the collation that makes sense, as opposed to having a bug that CLDR and ICU4C have. The failure to implement the bug in ICU4X caused this effect. CLDR updates: We have learned of one site where the CLDR change to stop applying locale-specific abbreviations to time zones for date/times before the unix epoch has resulted in one webcompat report so far. That’s it.

SFC: Shipping this in Firefox will provide us with additional feedback – the code that has landed is more likely to be good code, as opposed to just having a PR that HJS opened. I like this process, especially in order to reveal unsafe abstractions. Good to have evidence that this has shipped in firefox, millions of people have used this code every day will give us a better understanding of reviewing the code for ICU4X. This is great.

YSZ: No updates. 

SFC: checking what the status is on locale variants. 

### Updates from the W3C i18n Group

EAO: No updates beyond what was given above. Participating on and off, nothing specific to report. 

## Proposals and Discussion Topics

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/projects/2

### Intl Keep Trailing Zeros for Stage 3

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-keep-trailing-zeros/issues/9

EAO: Waiting for RGN and I to write and review things

### Intl Unit Protocol: continuation on fallback logic for existing, non-protocol implementing, object parameters

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-unit-protocol/issues/5

SFC: RGN isn’t there, last time we got about halfway through, good to finish the discussion so we can implement the conclusion. The question is how we go about sniffing for whether an object passed as an intl unit protocol object, or use the existing path. Currently if it’s an object we call toPrimitive on it, the question is how we brand check, a couple of proposals we had made, I think the main thing is how we determine that it has that shape – there were various degrees in which we check that. One is “does the property exist”, if they do we assume unit protocol. A more dramatic approach is to also check that they’re well-formed. How do we check that they exist? There’s a little bit of back and forth about whether we use the in operator, or use the get operator and check for null, there was interest in the former, but it was novel. 

EAO: Not clear of what open questions we have remaining, I thought we settled well last time on a proposed plan of action.

SFC: My impression was that we discussed some possible approaches, but didn’t actually decide what approach to take. Did not come to full agreement on whether to sniff the protocol chain [ ] 

EAO: I thought we ended up deciding to check for the presence of the fields, and to only check for the presence of the fields, and potentially write a new AO that would do the check and also return a value, so that we do not need to later check again when we want to actually get the value. Might be conflating discussions from JS Numerics calls, but pretty sure that’s where we ended up as an initial design.

SFC: Reviewing notes, I listed them out and we discussed them, I don’t see a record of us agreeing on one of the two. Still open concerns about novelty of that approach, though no one else seemed to. If no one else has issues with that, then it’s the right thing to do. One issue with it being novel is that it requires a new AO, since RGN’s position from last month is that if we do walk the prototype chain looking for the unit field, we should only walk it once rather than multiple times. Do we want to take this approach and implement, or just the approach where we call the existing get operation.

USA: I haven’t taken the time to research this, but from what  you just mentioned RGN’s approach sounds resilient, and would be easier to protect against mutations in the prototype chain

SFC: I don’t think there’s a difference between the approach there

USA: If you read twice, isn’t there a possibility?

SFC: We either call the get function, that exists in the spec, and it reads the fields then returns the value of the fields, which could be undefined. The problem with calling the extant get AO is that when it returns undefined it’s not certain whether it exists and stores undefined, or if it still exists.

[RGN joins]

SFC: Make a new AO that walks the prototype chain and reads the fields? A version of the get operation that returns an additional state, “Field does not exist”, in addition to “field is undefined”

RGN: That sounds right to me. The “do we care or not” question has to be answered in plenary, rather than TG2. We can definitely come with an opinion.

SFC: Basically the question is, do we care about this call site?

```
nf.format({ value: 123, unit: undefined })
```

Or, if the unit is not defined, should we require that it be null?

```
nf.format({ value: 123, unit: null })
```

SFC: Any opinions on this?

RGN: Single property check, or two property check?

EAO: Value and unit.

RGN: Only we consider both of them does it match the protocol then?

EAO: Yes, just having a value is not necessarily enough to make it web compatible, therefore the case we’re making is that if there is both a value and a unit field then that is a sufficient check. We also support Amounts with no units, so we need a value for unit that is kind of there, but not there, and the question is whether it’s undefined or null.

RGN: if undefined is an acceptable value for “unit”, and if this check needs to see an undefined, then my preference would be that we have the new AO that does the protocol walk and differentiates between “undefined because absent” or “undefined because it’s set to undefined”. If absence of a unit is represented with null rather than undefined, then the new op wouldn’t be helpful.

EAO: This kind of connects with the consideration of a serialized form of an Amount. What do you get from an amount.toString()? We need some non-empty string to represent a lack of a unit for Amount, so if we’re doing that, we’re expanding the scope of what are we considering as valid representations of no unit for Amount. If we’re doing that, then I would like to consider null as “no value”, which would make it easier to canonicalize no unit represented by null, rather than undefined. 

RGN: More exploration of that is needed, but all things considered, if we can represent absence of unit with null rather than undefined, that makes this better, might make serialization better, and the question is how does it interact with the other parts of the proposals.  That’s my stance on it: given the special nature of undefined, if it is valid then we should have special casing for undefined and only undefined. 

SFC: Should we document what we’ve said here and keep this issue open until other issues on the Amount proposal has been resolved. Not an issue right now, since it’s not going to block an advancement. Don’t intend to advance until Amount has advanced. OK with documenting what RGN and EAO said as current state of affairs, and revisit once Amount at stage 2.

RGN: That’s good as far as this proposal goes, we want to also make an Amount issue on this, if there’s not already.

EAO: The order of operations: file issue in amount, noting that no-unit representation being undefined specifically means that testing for that becomes trickier, and having null for that could be valid. Then second action: resolve what we’re doing with serializing, Amount.toString, if that results in a serialization with no unit, there are already [missed key parts], going from two to three easier than having two, undefined, null, and some string representation for no unit.

JMN: I can make that issue. 

### Sequence Units follow-up

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/398

SFC: Observation: we’ve had some back and forth on this issue since last we discussed, if people haven’t been following I’ll give an update. [ missed some ]. Main challenge: it makes serialization of Amounts more challenging, separate issue for that, not in scope of TG2. Other thing is that, I was looking at this yesterday, currently the LDML spec defines sequence unit formatting all in forms of listformat. There are people on this call (BAN and USA) who did work on DurationFormat. Most of DurationFormat is about how to determine how to use a list format or a digital format, all of this involves a numeric format or a list format. Once we do get the list format, we use ListFormatParts, a ListFormat operation, most of the time it’s a ListFormat, only does anything special if it’s numeric / digital format. We can see how that works. Observation I wanted to make: in CLDR the way we do numeric is not the way we do numeric units. There are small examples of other units that can be done with numerics. 

SFC: nothing with sequence unit formatting can’t be done right now, all the work we did with DurationFormat is solely because of the digital thing. We don’t need to do that with sequence units. 

RGN: What would it look like to do manually with ListFormat? There’s enough there that’s non-obvious – I guess the idea is that NumberFormat handles the translation, it’s a ListFormat of NumberFormat output?

SFC: Correct, use NumberFormat for each component and then glue together with ListFormat

RGN: Always order-preserving? If the desired order is not uniform across all locales, where do you get it from?

SFC: My understanding is that the unit “foot-and-inch” displays foot first, inch second, vice-versa for “inch-and-foot”. That said, no locale uses anything but big-endian order. 

EAO: LDML text, CLDR then, “mixed unit identifiers should be highest to lowest, and that is reflected in the display. If some locales present mixed units in a dfiferent order, will need to be different [missed something]. It is not completely clear to me if there is a canonicalization step that happens first… that is possibly something for us to decide. 

JMN: Is there any kind of normalization that needs to happen with the relationship between the units for overflow? 

SFC: We don’t do that with DF, we shouldn’t do that here. We want to be able to support formatting of mixed units that we don’t have data for, at least being able to represent that, we don’t want – we want to be able in Amount to represent custom units. If we do that, converting/balancing units is off the table. We also previously decided – I don’t like just saying “because we did it here, we should do that here”, but we didn’t do that in DF and DF would be the easiest place to do balancing. The reason we chose not is that we have the Duration object, which is the better place to do the balancing. Amount has convertTo, that’s the place to return a balanced amount, the only way to get an unbalanced amount is to do it yourself. The logic for durations applies here, meaning I don’t think we should do balancing in formatting, only the conversion operations.

EAO: Note that the custom units discussion is specifically about the toString representation of Amount, I don’t think anyone is suggesting that we build a way to have localized formatting of custom unit Amounts being a thing we handle. My preference though is for unit format to not try to be smart about this. If it’s given an inch and foot value, it would format in inches first and foot second. Honestly, inch and meter should just work, the way we do have the per unit just work, even if you do something that is in one way or another nonsensical 

RGN: I don’t know if there’s the possibility of nonsensical with per

EAO: but there is with and.

RGN: Can’t think of a reason not to.

SFC: Rephrasing question: last month asked if we want to see sequence units advance as a stage 1 proposal. We could still do this, but there is no actual technical reason we need to do it. If we do the version where we have structured units, no value-add right now. Could have Amount be a friendly interface, don’t need to have a sequence formatter in 402 because it doesn’t do anything you can’t already do.

EAO: It’s good sugar

SFC: Yes, but is it worth that sugar?

RGN: What formatter would accept an Amount and do ListFormat concatenation of NumberFormat output?

SFC: Amount.toLocaleString() could do it – that’s a good question. One position: when you give an Amount that contains sequence units number format, we could say that’s not supported. Another option is just shim it in, but only if it’s an Amount protocol thing, but that’s basically what this proposal is. We could also wire it up in ListFormat, or just not support it at all except in Amount.toLocaleString()

EAO: My preference is least surprise from users about what unit identifiers work where. By this I mean we are in Amount, through the preferred unit stuff, ending up with likely wanting to have foot-and-inch and meter-and-centimeter as supported units, and if we do have foot-and-inch showing up somewhere in JS through Amount, if we have foot support in number format, inch support, -per- in number format, I’d be surprised as a user if -and- didn’t work in NumberFormat, especially if we could implement it just doing it as sugar.

RGN: Concretely what you’re sketching out is that NumberFormat, in its acceptance of Amount, would also accept Amounts with mixed units, and when it receives them it calls out to ListFormat as needed to compose them. 

EAO: Yes, which effectively mirroring what LDML says the CLDR should do.

RGN: Amount#toLocaleString should be defined in terms of Intl formatters.

EAO: Strongly agree. I think it’s weird how in ICU the only way you can get mixed unit formatting is through skeleton strings. 

SFC: I see the argument there. I also feel that I’m not – the whole point of having – I discussed this in intl unit protocol proposal – the whole point of having two things is because supposedly creating new intl format is faster, cause you can do it once and use it many times, we keep departing from that, if we do what we discussed above in Amount, that gets us further away from this. I think Intl.DateTimeFormat with Temporal has this same type of issue, at least the ICU4C-based implementation has this issue. When you pass a Temporal object to Intl.DateTimeFormat, it’s no more efficient than calling toLocaleString, because it’s hard of us to cache anything, because we don’t know the shape of the input format. We discussed this, but we didn’t put enough weight on that. I don’t think that I, or we as a group, put enough weight on what purpose the constructors on the objects, and the purpose has to be “to be more efficient”, since toLocaleString is the more ergonomic design. 

RGN: To clarify my position on the previous: I would be okay with Intl.NumberFormat instances accepting Amounts with mixed units and formatting them with ListFormat operations. I would also be comfortable with introducing an AmountFormat. I would not be okay with just Amount.prototype.toLocaleString, uniquely of all toLocaleStrings, not being represented as Intl format operations. There are options in this space, but we can’t define all the logic specifically in toLocaleString and not expose it elsewhere. 

EAO: +1

JMN: +1

RGN: If we do consider the weighting of how efficient intl formatters can be, information from implementors would be useful. ICU4C doesn’t do caching, but it seems likely that it _could_. It’s more effort than you get with a simple formatter, but it doesn’t seem like it’s off the table. And likewise here: if you internally have a ListFormat, you’ll only have the one – and I guess NumberFormat

SFC: If you know you’re formatting a Temporal.PlainDate, you can instantiate your DateTimeFormat with the fields for the PlainDate, it’s supposed to use the fast path. It is possible to instantiate an Intl.DateTimeFormat that is efficient. The way you reach the slow path in Intl.DateTimeFormat is creating one with the wrong set of fields, that’s how it ends up on the slow path. Intl.NumberFormat is designed for implementing the fast path for individual numbers, we chose to go with the design where NumberFormat handles units, we decided to go with the unified NumberFormat model, it doesn’t affect this decision. The question is that if you create a NumberFormat with a unit string in foot-and-inch, it needs to create the foot formatter and the inch formatter so that it’s ready to use it in the fast path. Basically NumberFormat is already a big union of different fomatters (currency, unit, percent, scientific), and we’re adding a new thing (list), that supports formatting of lists of a certain shape. That’s what we’d have to be saying.

EAO: do we support formatting, for example, euros per kilometer?

SFC: I want to eventually support that, that was one of our motivation for unified NumberFormat. 

EAO: If we’re talking about mixed units and also supporting what Amount should be doing, I assume euro per km would be something we’d want to support.

RGN: That opens up an interesting area, because right now currency codes are not accepted as units, but if we had currency codes participating in -per- compounds, it would be expected that they are supported. 

EAO: Amount having a unit field but not currency is a pointer that style: currency should be a style: unit, especially since currency code identifiers and unit identifiers we currently support have no overlap.

RGN: might not be a strict alias, something like “when used as a currency, whatever format you want, when used as a unit, must be uppercase”

EAO: [missed], so it’s not strictly …

RGN: It’s close, yeah, If we allow currency as unit, they must be disjoint so that you can differentiate currency from non-currency

EAO: On that note, I think for example if we have an Amount that has as a unit EUR in caps, my expectation when I format that is that the NumberFormat 

RGN: but a three-currency non-currency unit may already exist, even if it’s not in CLDR yet.

EAO: This is getting off-track, but it is something interesting to come back to. 

SFC: It looks like this group is thinking we should put it in Intl somewhere, if we do I think NumberFormat is the only place we should put it. Bring it back to this group for stage 2, with this understanding of the scope of the proposal? One open question is – actually, it’s not an open question, how does this interact with intl unit protocol, based on discussion from last month is that if that unit is a sequence unit only then do we try to read the fields. Seems like that’s what makes this group happy? 

RGN: Just to get it in the record: I scanned what’s defined now, and the kind of collision we’re talking about already exists: “cup” is a unit of volume, and there ISO 4217 code “CUP” identifies the Cuban peso. If you do a case-insensitive comparison you will find that they match.

SFC: We don’t currently have “cup” in 402, must make it case-sensitive

EAO: Aren’t currency codes already case-sensitive? They need to be uppercase.

RGN: We may not require that for NumberFormat with style: “currency”, would definitely require that as currency for unit.

EAO: Amount expects NumberFormat to impose a requirement for currency to be uppercase. 

###  String.toTitleCase, String.toLocaleTitleCase, with a focus on recent comments about titlecaseSegment

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/294

SFC: In ICU4X we implemented a new shape – we investigated a new shape of CaseMapper. We shipped a new API with a function on it called TitlecaseMapper, and TitlecaseMapper uses this thing called titlecase_segment, differing from ICU4C, we only titlecase the beginning of the string, if you want to titlecase every word, you use a segmenter. I think in the thread Lionel observed that we could do this strategy here, so that titlecase would only titlecase the first letter of the segment, and if you wanted to titlecase more than that you’d use your own Intl.Segmenter. Thoughts on this strategy?

RGN: I’m curious about what you expressed as the definition, and what it would do with prefixes that conventionally are not capitalized. I’ve seen it in at least French. 

CDA: Not even at the beginning of sentences?

RGN: Correct.

CDA: Proper nouns?

RGN: Prefix on a proper noun. D-apostrophe, like d’Orleans

CDA: Like my last name. 

RGN: Your name would work. That’s exactly the kind of example I’m thinking of. 

SFC: Pulling in ICU4X demo to see what the behavior is… 

CDA: The challenge is that there’s no deterministic way to do it, especially when talking about names (disagreement on what’s correct). 

RGN: And it’s not necessarily exclusive to proper nouns.

CDA: I was also curious – I want to talk about stopwords, but I’m also curious about the choosing of – naming it Titlecase as opposed to sentencecase. I don’t want to risk bikeshedding that here. ICU4X does not support the stopwords capability? 

SFC: The reason ICU4X took the titlecase-segment strategy is that we want to emphasize that it is a building block, not a one-step solution. We don’t do other cases of things like stopwords and language-specific [ ? ]. If you want title cases like in a news article in something, we give you the building blocks but not the end-to-end solution.

CDA: That’s the right solution. And in 402 it’s more or less the same? We’re not going to canonicalize what words don’t get capitalized in titlecase (as contrasted from sentencecase). 

SFC: I don’t know what you mean when you say “canonicalize words”

CDA: We’re not codifying which – the system of stopwords. Not codifying per language / per locale what words would not be capitalized in a titlecase implementation. That’s not being proposed.

SFC: Correct, that is not being proposed. 

EAO: Two questions re: ICU4X implementation: why is it called titlecase and not sentencecase? And I am right that it doesn’t support things like [a dutch word] that has both the E and the I capitalized.

SFC: I recollect that we called it titlecase-segment rather than sentence-case is because it’s a building block rather than a solution by itself. Basically you should figure out where your sentence begins and then run titlecase-segment on the start of it. Not on the whole sentence, if you have “I bought an iPhone yesterday”, you only want the first word of the sentence to change case. 

RGN: Can you explain what “leading junk” means? 

SFC: My understanding is that you should call it on a word segment, not multiple words.

RGN: I guess to give a concrete example: if my string is a full question in spanish, properly formatted so that it starts with an inverted question mark, are you saying it skips over that initial punctuation to find the first word-like segment, and then mutate the prefix of that? Or would it see that the first segment is not wordlike, and then return no-op. 

SFC: It skips over, but you can change that behavior. 

RGN: Just punctuation, or anything that’s not wordlike? Say a space?

SFC: It still sees that.

RGN: In terms of naming, Unicode itself defines titlecase, and it affects characters, not words. Which probably – if we pursue this, titlecase is one name that we should explicitly avoid if we pursue it with this behavior.

SFC: Here’s where it says – the relevant character is picked by “the best available algorithm”, by default going to first letter, number, symbol, or privateuse character.

RGN: Privateuse character is interesting, ignoring that it’s going to find something wordlike. Wait, symbol is interesting too, that– that’s an implementation that’s not necessarily important for the spec we’re talking about. In last discussion we were talking about sugar, for here it seems almost trivial to build on your own just using Intl.Segmenter?

SFC: You can’t build a titlecase algorithm using Intl.Segmenter, because titlecase has its own rules. It is wrong to say “find me a word segment, pick the first codepoint, uppercase it” - that doesn’t give you titlecase.

RGN: Other way to phrase it: this building block might already be too high-level. If you had a character-specific titlecase, would you do it? Not sure. The Dutch consideration is very interesting (word that starts with IJ) titlecase requires changing both codepoints.

DLM: Question: What’s the state of this or similar in CSS?

CDA: CSS has text-transform, so capitalize, uppercase – I guess capitalize the only thing in CSS right now.

DLM: This is a leading question, I think CSS is the more natural place to examining titlecasing than adding it to 402. At Mozilla we’re looking for declarative rather than imperative approach to the web, CSS might be a place to experience with API design without necessarily exposing it to JS right away. And even if we do it here, we should consider a parallel process in CSS. I think we should take it to them first, and then see what they think of it.

HJS: I think it belongs in CSS, I think the name “titlecase” for a method is extremely confusing, to the point that I was confused about what was being proposed here before this discussion. As Dominic said on the issue, it would be very confusing to have something that talks about titlecase, and then – like, if it’s in en-US, is it Chicago, is it MLA, is it APA? It’s relevant that CSS has a – they’ve thought about it for – the notion of text transform has been in CSS for 20 years, and they note that they don’t do the thing that in English that is colloquially referred to as titlecase. The closest thing that CSS has is text-transform: capitalize, and what that does seems more useful than what SFC demoed with ICU4X, it turns to Unicode titlecase that captures that notion that (for example) IJ in Dutch is first. Also, say you have MacDonald, it doesn’t lowercase the D. What problem is solved by lowercasing the rest? Seems CSS implementation is more useful than what SFC demo’ed with ICU4X. This seems like it belongs in CSS, they have significant experience with it, when CSS exposes it and there’s a backend library for implementing it, that API can deal with more cases over time. If we do something in JS, we have to commit to whatever JS API. Question is what does CSS not do that needs to be done, why isn’t CSS doing it already? And the operations that CSS does do, should it be enough to be able to present text on the Web by applying CSS text transform, and if after that there is still use cases for doing the actual transformations on the CSS-visible string, then it seems like CSS operations are a reasonable starting point.

SFC: My feeling is that CSS can’t do anything ICU/ICU4X doesn’t support, in terms of implementing titlecase algorithm from Unicode. Unicode specifies it, ICU4X implements it, there’s nothing that CSS can do but implement that algorithm with bells and whistles (stopwords and such). I don’t see the argument that this is out of scope for 402, otherwise everything we do is better done in CSS or HTML. We should add a CSS attribute to the HTML date tag that says “localize this date”. I don’t see why titlecase is any different. What we try to do in 402 is export building blocks. We don’t have at this point a full service message formatter, that’s what we do in 402, we support building blocks. There are still pain points in the Segmenter API we did a late removal of LineSegmenter. We’ve gone through three iterations of proposals and CSS isn’t doing anything with it. It’s also a pain point that we don’t have ListSegmentter. If we want to implement titlecase in user-space, we have to ship [missed]. Shipping low-level building block and naming it appropriately – this isn’t an API used casually, you have to have a wrapper around it. A 1kb library that uses Intl.Segmenter and Intl.CaseMapper and does the thing correctly, but it doesn’t have to carry its own data, it just puts the pieces together correctly, maybe with stopwords. I don’t see a path where this exact function is what we land. Either an Intl.CaseMapper, or if on string prototype some function name that this signals to users that this is not intended as a one-stop shop. As far as CSS should do better, I support CSS doing a better job, but I work in 402/JS. I want to get more involved with CSS spec, but I’m suggesting a path forward for ECMAScript beyond what CSS can do on its own.

CDA: I agree with SFC, these things aren’t mutually exclusive, we should look at what CSS is doing and the folks who are overlapping in TC39 may help facilitate that, I don’t view these as mutually exclusive, there’s a strong case for having first-class support for this in 402. Even exceptiong the constituencies that aren’t the Web, even just the web, we’d use CSS text transforms if possible, but even for the Web we have to do conversions frequently in JS. I don’t want to get into the details, but CSS doesn’t get you 100% of the way there in complex cases. This is well-motivated for addition to 402. 

EAO: So do I understand right, ven though this discussion is nominally about something like toLocaleTitlecase, we’re not proposing that that become a thing, but some tools to userspace implementation be produced, specifically avoiding the word “titlecase”

SFC: yes, ICU4X term is titlecase-segment, maybe we could do something without word titlecase in it.

EAO: But this could be closed as a won’t-fix, because it’s not feasible to get the data and do all the other work to support it at this time, but this work could support that in the ICU4X way, providing a building block.

SFC: Last comment from Lionel is specifically that, something called myTitlecase, still calling it toLocaleTitleCase, presumably it wouldn’t be that, maybe something more opaque than that, but this is what we’re expecting to see. Use the engine’s titlecase as a building block for a more robust thing.

EAO: So doing the thing that CSS is doing with capitalize?

CDA: This example is far more robust than what CSS gives you, at least today.

DMN: Thank you, those are good comments. I’m still not convinced – this still feels like something to solve in CSS first – I realize that in advanced cases CSS won’t get us all the way there, but we should see what those are by deciding it through CSS rather than getting ahead of CSS. If there are problems getting things into CSS, we should improve connections with those groups. 

HJS: Does anyone using this want the D in MacDonald to get lowercase? 

CDA: All CSS does is capitalize the first letter of the first word, and this example has segments and stopwords.

HJS: Yes, but at the word level, you’ve done the segmentation to words, if you call the operation that CSS calls capitalized, surely that’s more robust than what SFC showed us from ICU4X. You segment it by words, you want the first segment or thingy or whatever, who actually wants the D in MacDonald to go to lowercase? If you want robustness with this, don’t you not only need to do the word segmentation yourself, but also all the special stuff yourself, to do things like avoiding lowercasing the D.

SFC: I think Lionel’s example is good – it has the stopwords, it sets the trailing-case: unchanged option to handle the D correctly.

EAO: noting that given that we have uppercasing and lowercasing, being locale-aware, I don’t see why titlecase needs to use those [  connection dropped ] just want to capitalize the first letter and leave the rest untouched. 

SFC: Can you weigh in on EAO’s proposal of adding String.prototype.capitalize(), which would have same behavior as CSS>

DMN: Yes, my general point is that we should – if something’s in CSS, I don’t see a problem with adding the API in JS as the use case for it. My general comment is that we should bring things like this to CSS first.

SFC: Posting a summary: This question of how to build a good titlecasing solution is one that we should discuss more holistically with the web platform, a solution discussed at the end of the thread, a titlecase-segment equivalent, could be a good approach, but we want to engage with the rest of the Web platform first. 

### Triage some new issues filed by Anba

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues

SFC: Anba opened several new issues, already took liberty to add to – put some of them directly in the milestone on GH, which we should rename to 2027 now, BAN could pull those (the uncontroversial bugs). Some that are not purely bugs. 

SFC: 15.5.13, reached by using new Intl.Locale(“en-US”).getTimezones(). Returns a lot of timezones, but those are apparently timezones used in this locale. Let’s try a different region: “fr-FR” only has one. But it’s implementation-defined what time zones are in what regions. The ask from Anba is whether we should consider writing a spec around this. 

HJS: Expectation is that if we don’t it’ll be a compatibility problem? The thing that you demoed for U.S. and France, what mechanism does it use?

SFC: Not sure.

EAO: That’s definitely wrong for French, given that Franch has integral parts overseas territories. 

SFC: I think all of the U.S. timezones – nothing overseas…

EAO: But France definitely includes land that is not using a European timezone

HJS: [ missed]. If there is a containment, like [ missed ] is part of fi, that’s more time zones than metropolitan france, but if you have a more specific region code does it mean that those timezones get carved out of the parent region code and so forth. Those are already questions that someone that writes code somewhere that someone has to answer, and different people answer different ways, that’s a compat problem.

RGN: What is the use case that calls getTimezones on a locale instance, and what happens downstream of that call? 

HJS: You put these timezones at the top of a timezone picker in a calendaring app, do you move these to the top if the user has picked this locale as theirs?

RGN: For a use case like that, the output we’re looking for here for French as spoken in France is good, the output for English as spoken in the U.S. is doing far too much.

SFC: Most of these timezones are – not necessarily deprecated, because for example America/Detroit and America/New_York have been the same since 1975.

RGN: Same with the North_Dakota ones, it’s just too big a list. If these are uses where they’re a plausible section for users, then fr-FR is just right and en-US is just wrong.

SFC: One thing we should be doing but don’t is filtering out timezones that are for modern dates equivalent to another one. 

RGN: These are all the timezones that the API knows about, including obsolete and merged ones. supportedValuesOf I get, but getTimezones from a locale is – it seems to have more specialized intent, and should be more opinionated. That’s at least worth specifiying in terms of intent, if not in terms of actual algorithm. 

EAO: The case that I’m considering related to this is what is the appropriate output for en-CA vs fr-CA, and who should decide that fr-CA should be a subset of en-CA or the exact same thing? Given that we’re talking about it in a 402 context is leading me to assume that CLDR is the only authority we could use, which does have the tools for gathering this locale-specific information and then using it. If we want to support this as we are supporting this, that’s the place the information that should be coming from, so that the authority for what’s coming from a locale in this is delegated to representatives of the locale itself rather than a technologically-driven solution for this.

HJS: Also Anba mentioned what happens if you specify the world, or Europe, or something like that, do those have use cases? If not, let’s not do those.

SFC: I noticed that Anba opened a PR to fix one of the other issues, I’l just leave it as homework with folks to look at these other issues/PR, I’ll record the notes on the discussion on the TimeZonesOfLocale issue. One more meeting before next plenary, then I need to put more meetings on the calendar, nothing else for today. 
