Attendees:

- Frank Tang - V8 (FT)
- Shane Carr - Google i18n (SC)
- Daniel Ehrenberg - Igalia (DE)
- Isaac Durazo - Bocoup PM (ID)
- Valerie Young - Bocoup (VY)
- Steven Loomis - IBM (SL)
- Craig Cornelius - Google i18n (CC)
- Romulo Cintra (RC)
- Felipe Balbontin - Google i18n (FB)
- Philipp Dunkel - Bloomberg (PD)

## PR Status Updates

### Normative: Add calendar and numberingSystem options (#175)

[PR](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/175)

Last month: FT filed a bug to implement in Chromium.
https://bugs.chromium.org/p/v8/issues/detail?id=9154

FT: Landed into Chrome behind flag. Need test262 tests.

DE: We have consensus on this change.  I will ping Ms2gr for the tests.

FT: I would like to hear from another vendor.

DE: You could email Zibi, Myles to see if they have objections.

SC: We discussed this last month and did not get any objections.

### Normative: Improve handling of non-Gregorian calendars

[PR](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/227)

Last month: FT filed a bug to implement in Chromium.

https://bugs.chromium.org/p/v8/issues/detail?id=9155

FT: Has issue with r and U (cycle year name).  No “skeleton” for requesting relativeYear only relativeYear in “pattern”. 

FT: My understanding from the PR is that you should allow in the options and resolvedOptions to have relativeYear.  In CLDR and ICU, for non-grego calendars, there is a formatted result that has a relative year.  The tricky part is, there is no way to request this.  You can request for a year in the skeleton, and that particular calendar or locale should have a year, plus a cycle year name.  So therefore the PR would have to be changed.  First, you can't request it.  Second, in formatToParts, you have to have a separate field to report the name of the relative year.  So, in addition to relative year in the output type, you need another one, maybe called yearName, to denote that.

DE: Right, the year is no longer a number.  Your suggestions sound good but I haven't gotten around to writing a PR yet.

DE: Regarding tests, I think there are tests I wrote a couple years ago.

FT: Can you point me to those tests?

DE: In V8, you don't need a Test262 feature flag to turn them on.  You can turn on the flag by adding the lines to Test262.Status.

FT: We can go offline for that.

### Normative: Support BigInt in NumberFormat and toLocaleString

[PR](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/236)

Last month: LB wants to wait to merge until BigInt is in ECMA 262.

DE: We plan to propose this to Stage 4 in June.

SC: Will the PR to ECMA 262 be ready at that time?


DE: I think we can just land it at that point.

### Normative: Permit use of implementation-defined tailoring for case mapping

[PR](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/341)

Merged last week!

## Proposal Status Updates

### Intl.ListFormat

[Proposal](https://github.com/zbraniecki/proposal-intl-list-format)

Last month: André Bargull (@anba) has a patch which is waiting for review for Firefox.  Low priority for Safari. https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1433306

Bug with `type: 'disjunction'` in Spanish? [#45](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-list-format/issues/45)

DE: I don't know if CLDR has the data for this.  And there are other languages with other complex syntax.

FT: It sounds like this is the issue we need to resolve at the CLDR level.  I will discuss with Peter Edberg.

SL: It came up in CLDR recently that there is some data.  You might talk to Mark Davis.  He was talking about adding inflection data to CLDR.

SC: Cira was also talking about adding inflection data.

FT: Do you know if this is for a particular style (narrow) or does it happen with all styles?

DE: It happens in narrow long, conjunction and disjunction.

SL: Maltese has this also, and possibly Arabic.

FT: So this issue applies to multiple locales, multiple styles.  And this happens only in list?  Does it have an issue in other formats?

SL: List was not the case Mark mentioned in CLDR, so I think he has other data in mind.  I think it was denomynyms.  So it was the general situation of case based on context.

DE: So with languages with gender and case, this gets more complex.  But I think maybe we don't need a principled answer to everything, but we can handle the things that are phonological.

FT: So what is the consequence of the discovery of this issue in ListFormat?  Does it block the proposal advancing to Stage 4?  Or should we wait?

DE: It makes ListFormat not very useful for Spanish.

SL: Is there a CLDR bug filed to track this?

FT: I just sent the email last night.

SC: ListFormat in ICU is stable.  Is this really a problem if it's been around for so long?

DE: Yes, it's a long-standing issue.

FT: ListFormat is probably not very widely used.

SL: It's not grammatically correct.  It looks like you are using incorrect syntax. ( like saying '0 things, 1 things, 2 things' or '0 thing(s), 1 thing(s), 2 thing(s)' )

CC: So it's like "a automobile" versus "an automobile"?

SL: Yes.  DE, do you say that this is broken to the point that you don't want the feature implemented this way?

DE: My intuition matches yours.

RC: This modification doesn't sound well.  Most of the time we don't use the browser APIs to do this kind of modification of our strings.  But we will start doing that.  Yahoo MessageFormat relies a lot on the Intl APIs, and we will start finding these issues when we start using Intl more.

FT: Since this issue is deeply rooted in CLDR data, then ICU4C and ICU4J have the same problem.  So even if you implement it from server-side, they have the same problem.  So I think we should escalate to CLDR.

SC: We should block the proposal until we get an answer from CLDR.  They are pretty responsive.

FT: There's no need to change the interface.  It's probably something about the algorithm in the spec.

SL: I'll send an email to the internal CLDR mailing list.

### Intl.Locale

[Proposal](https://github.com/zbraniecki/proposal-intl-locale)

Last month: André Bargull (@anba) also has an implementation that is on the review queue for mozilla.
https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1433303 

SC: Is there someone we should ping for the bug?

DE: It looks like there is a reasonable amount of activity.  I'll post this on IRC.

### Intl.RelativeTimeFormat

[Proposal](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-relative-time)

Last month: Firefox needs to upgrade to ICU 64.

FT: Also need https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-relative-time/pull/108 
(v8 bug https://bugs.chromium.org/p/v8/issues/detail?id=9190 / cl https://chromium-review.googlesource.com/c/v8/v8/+/1590442) 

FT: This is similar for the date and number format in ECMA 402.  So it should also go here.  We should enable the numbering system to be allowed in the options.

DE: I think we should go for it.

SC: I also approve of it.

DE: Everyone is happy with this PR landing after the editorial thing gets fixed?

SC: It sounds like we have consensus.  FT and DE will work offline to resolve the review comment.

FT: It should land pretty soon in V8.  And it won't have a flag.

### Intl.NumberFormat Unified API Proposal

[Proposal](https://github.com/sffc/proposal-unified-intl-numberformat)

Last month: proposed new list of units.

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-unified-intl-numberformat/issues/39

https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1Id9Zvf2MvdLdTG9J-AVB1VTdeB2edA2lY9Rlo0g0uVU/edit#gid=0

SC: I did not receive any feedback on the list of units I proposed.  I will open a PR against Intl.NumberFormat Unified API Proposal with the above list of units.  Please speak up if you have any opinion on this.

### DateTimeFormat dateStyle & timeStyle

[Proposal](https://github.com/zbraniecki/proposal-ecma402-datetime-style)

Last month: not sure about Firefox status.

DE: I don't see a bug for dateStyle/timeStyle.

FT: I thought they did?

DE: They had something similar but different.

### Intl.DateFormat.prototype.formatRange

[Proposal](https://github.com/fabalbon/proposal-intl-DateTimeFormat-formatRange)

Last month: needs better test coverage in browsers and in Test262.

https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1496584

FT: plan to ship with Chrome 76

FT: The tests are all in.  We are in good shape.

### Intl.Segmenter

[Proposal](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-segmenter)

Last month: extended discussion about RG's proposed changes.

In generally good shape (thanks DE!).

### Intl.DisplayNames

[Proposal](https://github.com/tc39-transfer/proposal-intl-displaynames)

Last month: ZB will write the doc to clarify the line between what does and does not get added to Intl.DisplayNames.  Need to decide on how to handle null values.

FT: Target to advance into stage 2 in TC39 June meeting



## Discussions

[Board](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/projects/1#column-5001141)

### Intl.DisplayNames: Error handling while there are no name for the code (#23)

[PR](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-displaynames/issues/23)

DE: My intuition is that it is nice to return undefined so that you can return data and no data.  But I can see the other side, that you don't want to have to make people write semantic fallbacks.  So I'm okay with whichever decision.  It sounds like we were coming to a conclusion that the fallback be the locale string itself.

FT: And we're talking about the case where the input is a valid code.  It can't be a 10-character random hello world.

SC: My suggestion was to add an option to pick the behavior, where the default behavior is to return the default code.

SL: I agree the default should be to return the code.

SL: Also think about the Script code for Thai.  It is Thai.  The English display name for Thai is, surprise, Thai.  So there are cases where the display name === the code.

RC: I think it is a very good idea to have a fallback for the non-existent strings, because in that way, at least we know whether we need to give a fallback.  In the UI example, we need to show something to the final user.

FB: I agree with SC's suggestion; making this configurable is the best option.

FT: So, configure to either fall back to the input or to return undefined?

SL: That sounds right.

RC: Is there no way to know in advance which ones are not covered?  A way to check in advance which ones are supported by the spec?

SL: You mean the data?  The user might configure the data differently.  For example, in Node.js, you can pick which datasets are available.  You can't know ahead of time what the list is.  What is your application?

RC: Just to be prepared on the server to know in advance which strings I need to provide fallbacks for.

SL: We might want to look at that use case separately.  Where you want to load more data than is actually available.

FT: So everyone is against throwing an exception?

SL: Yeah.

FT: So the decision is to return undefined or return the default, and the proposal is to add an option to decide which one to perform.  Right?

DE: I said earlier that I was skeptical of an option, but I'm okay going in this direction.  Where the default is to return the default string, and have an option to return undefined.

FT: Would this make the API harder to use?

DE: That was my concern, but it sounds like there are use cases.

RC: If there is no option here, I would prefer having the code return the code instead of undefined.

FT: I would say the other way.  Because at least with undefined, you know it's not a localized string, so you can return the default code yourself.

SC: I agree with FT.

RC: Yeah.  It's more clever that way.

FB: That's why I think we should make it configurable.  There are use cases for both.

FT: So let's say that the APIs return undefined.  And the caller wants to use the fallback string.  So then there's just one line of code.  Is that worth adding to the spec?

SL: CLDR says specifically that the code is defined to be the code if there's no data.  Digging in to find out that there's no localized value is outside of the common use case for the data.  It's helpful for library authors, but it's outside of the normal definition of the locale code.

SC: If the API can return undefined, then every user of the API needs to handle that case.  We should avoid making the common recommended pattern for calling the API requiring an external check.

FT: If that's the case, why do we need the option?

SC: To help library authors.

FT: Any suggestions for the name of the option?  A boolean option?

SL: Call it `noFallback`?

FT: Maybe `fallback`?  Then there's no double-negative.

SL: But maybe we want the default to be falsy.

SC: Is there a reasonable name for a non-boolean option?

SL: Maybe `fallbackStrategy`?

FT: Okay, so I'll create a PR to have a non-boolean option as described above, and let DE review the PR.

SC: I would like to let FT/DE merge the PR without coming back to this meeting, so if you have options, please watch the bug.

DE: SGTM

FT: Are there any other issues before bringing this to Stage 2?

(silence)

### [Segment classification](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-segmenter/issues/80)

`precedingSegmentType` essentially conveys boolean isWord for word segments and hasTerminatingPunctuation for sentence segments… should we represent that data differently?

DE: It seems like Option 4 is most extensible.

SL: There might be other types in the future.
RG: Slight preference for option 4.

SL: Always preceding, going forwards or backwards?

RG: Imposes requirements on implementations, but minimally invasive as long as we have only two types per granularity.

DE: yes

DE: We could also add more categories now in the first pass, if we know what those categories would be.

SL: A very common use case is, None vs number vs letter as to whether numerical words are counted as part of the word count.  So in some cases, a run of numbers is considered a non-word.  Versus idiographic characters, which may or may not be in numbers. (example: http://icu-project.org/apiref/icu4c/ubrk_8h.html#af9836cc79482f82ac12eefb1f70b14b9 ) - ICU rules: https://github.com/unicode-org/icu/blob/master/icu4c/source/data/brkitr/rules/word.txt#L159

RG: How do current software implementations deal with this?  Where you have different types on the same segment?

SL: I think the break would separate a run of Kana from a run of numbers, for example. There is a translation use case that cares about excluding numeric segments from word counts.

DE: We could make a name for each one of the things that ICU already has.  When I asked what the use cases were originally, it was word versus non-word.  But now it sounds like there are actually use cases for these.  So maybe we should add all of these or at least ones SL found.

SL: I think it's OK for the API to move forward with word vs. non-word as long as the API is extensible.

SC: Since ICU already exposes these tags, it makes sense that we should expose them in ECMAScript, and we should design an API that is able to support them.

DE: I don't like the idea of an API that is more complicated with the potential for future expansion.

FT: I think we should have 5 categories.  (lists them.)

RG: There's a difference in data model.  ICU presents it fundamentally as a vector.  So you could have something that is word and number.  But if Intl.Segmenter presents this as a scalar, then it's harder to be extensible.  You could have one of them, or three of them.  But the API is the same as for words versus graphemes, etc.

SC: We shouldn’t decide on simplicity, but should only exclude the ICU tags if we have a reason to do so.  It should be possible to design a nice API even if we have to support the other tags.

RG: The ICU API smells like something that grew by necessity rather than by design.  I'm not sure what the right way to present that in ECMAScript would be.

RG: I think it comes down do, do we want word vs. non-word to be exposed at the base.  So if we can decide on that, we can move forward with the investigation.

SC: I have a preference for an API that treats all tags equally rather than preferentially categorizing word vs. non-word etc.  But I'm not the only one here.

RG: It sounds like a set-based approach is worth investigation.  Does anyone have access to a way to explore the different segment types?

SL: I can put in links for tools you can use to explore this.  I can put something together though.  Both of the demos I know of don't return the break type.

### [Segment classification values](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-segmenter/issues/74)

Naming improvement suggestions
grapheme: undefined → "grapheme"
word: "none" → "space" and "punctuation" (i.e., three types rather than two), or just "none" → "other"
sentence: "term" → "terminated"
sentence: "sep" → "fragment" or "other"

RG: Not important in light of the decision we just made to explore set-based values.

### [`following`/`preceding` behavior](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-segmenter/issues/82)

Can we come up with semantics that are reasonable for all cases, including empty string and `iterator[methodName](iterator.index)`? Should they be informed by sample code such as https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-segmenter/pull/61#discussion_r281042426 ?

RG: A use case would be helpful to make decisions here.

SL: A diagram of state transitions would be helpful. There is an ICU data-driven test family. https://github.com/unicode-org/icu/blob/master/icu4c/source/test/testdata/rbbitst.txt 

SC: For readability, I would like an explicit approach as suggested by point 2. It would make the most sense for `following`/`preceding` to return either the receiver or undefined.

SC: Thinking through what a call site would look like.

```
const iter = (new Intl.Segmenter(locale, options)).segment("foo");
do {
  iter.following();
  // do stuff with iter.index, iter.precedingSegmentType, etc.
} while (!iter.atEndpoint());
```

RG: Good to throw when there’s no boundary to move to, contingent upon good patterns that avoid the exception.


