Attendees:

- Shane Carr - Google i18n (SC), Moderator
- Frank Tang - Google i18n, V8 (FT)
- Daniel Ehrenberg - Igalia (DE)
- Leo Balter - Bocoup (LB)
- Steven Loomis - IBM (SL)
- Craig Cornelius - Google i18n (CC)
- Romulo Cintra - CaixaBank (RC)
- Felipe Balbontin - Google i18n (FB)
- Nebojša Ćirić - Google i18n (NC)
- Zibi Braniecki - Mozilla (ZB)
- Eemeli Aro - messageformat (EA)
- Myles C. Maxfield - Apple (MM)
- Elango Cheran - Google i18n (EC)
- Axel Hecht (AH)

Discussion board: https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/projects/1

## Next Meeting

Thursday, July 11, 10am PDT?
https://doodle.com/poll/fqst2feg9hkupx75

FT: Can we add the next meeting time on the ecma402/README.md page.

DE: SC should contact Yulia about sharing the TC39 calendar.

LB: We should think about being more welcoming in ECMA 402, and then also bring those changes to TC39.  But we can start with ECMA 402. 

DE: Let's follow up with an issue. LB should open the issue.

New opened issue: https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/356

## Normative PR Status Updates

### Normative: Add calendar and numberingSystem options (#175)

[PR](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/175)

Last month: FT landed into Chrome behind flag.  Still needs test262 tests.  DE will ping Ms2ger for the tests.

FT: I was going to launch this in Chrome 76, but I decided to wait until the next two issues get addressed (#227, #351).  Because it could cause forward-behavior problems.

### Normative: Improve handling of non-Gregorian calendars

[PR](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/227)

Last month: FT has issue with r and U (cycle year name).  DE agrees with FT.  The PR needs to get updated.  DE also wrote tests and will dig them up and send them to FT.

Update: PR closed with comment: Subsumed by #349, #350, #351

### Normative: Permit relatedYear and yearName in output

[PR](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/351)

DE: I made the PR, didn't get it in time for TC39.  We should get consensus here in 402.

FT: The problem is the existing patterns are enough to support Gregorian calendar, but in Chinese calendar you have the 60-year cycle.  And you have the relative year cycle.  So we need to add these fields for formatToParts to work.  Otherwise, we use the Gregorian fields for non-Gregorian fields, which is confusing/wrong.  So, you need to look at the calendar option but also the pattern.

FT: Question: how do we pick the field names?  I made the fields named "relatedYear", and "yearName".  Are people comfortable with those names?

DE: Those names SGTM; they are consistent with CLDR.

DE: If we were starting this over, maybe we should use hodog case.

SL: But then you can't use them as object keys.

FT: So is everyone comfortable?

DE: Seems like it.

SL: Just a comment on the name.  I think this is the field that is always gregorian.

DE: The way it is specified, it leaves it up to the calendar system.

Conclusion: ECMA 402 has consensus on the PR, and the directly related PRs.

MM: Sounds OK

ZB: Sounds OK

### Normative: Allow calendar to determine choice of pattern

[PR](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/349)

FT commented: "So this PR is blocked by #351 from my point of view."

DE: We've already discussed this and gotten consensus on this.

### Normative: Support BigInt in NumberFormat and toLocaleString

[PR](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/236)

Last month: LB wants to wait to merge until BigInt is in ECMA 262.
TC39 Update: BigInt was approved for Stage 4, "pending editor signoff on PR."
V8 ship with chrome 76

DE: We can handle remaining issues offline.

LB: I'm okay merging this anytime.

DE: We could land it now and fix it up before the end of the year.  Whatever you think is best, LB.

(LB merges the PR live!!)

### Normative: Align currency handling in NumberFormat constructor with the Unified API proposal.

[PR](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/352)

DE: I agree with SC and we can revisit when we are merging the Unified proposal.

FT: I agree.  It will snowball.  I suggest we close and wait for unified numberformat.

Conclusion: We are closing the PR in favor of the unified numberformat.

### Normative: Add fractionalSecondDigits option

[PR](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/347)

TC39 Update: Discussed and reached consensus.
Partial tests in https://github.com/tc39/test262/pull/2194
V8 behind flag --harmony_intl_dateformat_fractional_second_digits

MN: Looking at the ICU implementation, you end up with 29.5 minutes, 29.5 second.

FT: There's only one fractional digit here.  We aren't touching anything about minutes.

SL: Maybe this should be an ICU bug with a test case.

MN: How do I propose fractional minute?

ZB: It sounds like MN's proposal can extend FT's proposal later.

ZB: Why is it fractionalSecond, not millisecond?

DE: The Temporal proposal supports precision below millisecond, so fractionalSecond is more future-proof.

ZB: SGTM

FT: My first version had millisecondDigits, PD brought up that we should use subsecondDigits, fractionalSecondDigits, etc.

ZB: It sounds like we have to throw if someone uses fractional minutes and fractional seconds.

DE: We are only proposing fractional seconds.

ZB: In the future.

MN: If we want to add these things later, we can't simply make this as part of another proposal.

Consensus: Continue discussions offline.

### Normative: Add dayPeriod option

[PR](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/346)

TC39 Update: Discussed and reached consensus.
Partial tests in https://github.com/tc39/test262/pull/2194
V8 behind flag --harmony_intl_dateformat_day_period

FT: One key consensus that we got from TC39 is that these three issues can be considered as PR, and they don't need full proposal, and this is tweaking we can make in the ECMA 402 meeting.

DE: We said that we can do this through the PR process, but we still need to depend on tests and implementations.  And I don't think we need to present the PR again.  We should continue presenting normative changes to TC39.

DE: I'm really happy about this PR.

MN: How about context?  "at 8 in the evening" versus "every evening at 8"

DE: We don't have this in ECMA 402; does CLDR have data?

ZB: The position with ECMA 402 is a standalone context.  We could extend it in the future.

SC: There is an issue for this; we want to add it in a unified way, not monkey-patch.

ZB: Do you know the data payload of this proposal?

FT: This data is already mixed with datetime formatting.  So unless you already did precise data cutting, you probably have the data.

MM: The PR sounds OK

LB: Getting consensus here is as important as consensus in TC39.

Conclusion: We have consensus on the content of the proposal.

### Normative: Add quarter option

[PR](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/345)

TC39 Update: Discussed and reached consensus.
Partial tests in https://github.com/tc39/test262/pull/2194
V8 behind flag --harmony_intl_dateformat_quarter

LB: This looks straightforward and nice to me.

ZB: Does this require spellout data?  To write "second quarter", does that require RBNF?

FT: There's no formatting.  The string is in CLDR directly.

SL: It's a static string.

ZB: And probably similar to day period.

SL: Yeah, it's in the data.

ZB: Is this Gregorian-only?  Or Gregorian-specific?

FT: Can you clarify?

ZB: If we extend to non-Gregorian calendars, does "quarter" lose its meaning?

DE: The spec allows the spec to determine what the quarter is depending on the calendar system.  So if you have a calendar with a different number of quarters, that would be weird, but there's nothing stopping it.

ZB: Some calendars don't have quarters.

SL: Trimester/semester.  When you mention that, should this really be, rather than quarter, something more flexible?

FT: The more realistic use case is, "Apple's first quarter financial report is ___."  So it is about finance or business.  You don't see it frequently.

MM: If this is in a news article, the whole article is translated.

FT: But if you go to your bank, you have a link.

ZB: The argument SL is trying to make is that, you may need to extend this to other calendars.

SL: The quarter has usually been calculated based on the Gregorian calendar.

MN: I think there is some benefit to having "periods".  As an American I haven't heard quarters used.  But Romanian financial uses trimesters, not quarters.

NC: In Serbia, I don't use quarter, it's "quartal".

ZB: So quarter and quartal are replaceable, but not quarter and trimester.

LB: How is quarter different than quartal?

DE: If we generalize the name, it would be weird unless someone is taking advantage of the generalization.  So if we are really thinking about quarters, we should use the quarters name.  And then we can add a new field later when we have data.

FT: We cannot generalize it.  You have Q1-4, but you also have trimesters.  So both concepts are separately coexisting in Gregorian calendar.  If you want to introduce trimester, you can't mix it with the same context.

MM: This sounds like a CLDR/ICU feature request.

SL: There are 2 questions. (1), how does this feature behave in non-Gregorian calendars. (2), how do we handle extension to trimesters and more general periods in the future.

MM: We shouldn't design an API if we don't know the scope.

Conclusion:

SC: Let's answer these questions offline.  I don't want to record consensus until we have answers.

## Proposal Status Updates (*skipped*)

### Intl.ListFormat (*skipped*)

[Proposal](https://github.com/zbraniecki/proposal-intl-list-format)
[Firefox Bug](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1433306)

Last month: André Bargull (@anba) has a patch which is waiting for review for Firefox.  Low priority for Safari.

Last month: bug with `type: 'disjunction'` in Spanish? [#45](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-list-format/issues/45)

Update: New team member at Google is working on the CLDR ticket.

### Intl.Locale (*skipped*)

[Proposal](https://github.com/zbraniecki/proposal-intl-locale)
[Firefox Bug](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1433303)

Last month: André Bargull (@anba) also has an implementation that is on the review queue for mozilla.

### Intl.RelativeTimeFormat (*skipped*)

[Proposal](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-relative-time)

Last month: Firefox needs to upgrade to ICU 64.  FT: It should land pretty soon in V8.  And it won't have a flag.

### Intl.NumberFormat Unified API Proposal (*skipped*)

[Proposal](https://github.com/sffc/proposal-unified-intl-numberformat)

Update: v8 will ship with Chrome 77.  Firefox status?

### DateTimeFormat dateStyle & timeStyle (*skipped*)

[Proposal](https://github.com/zbraniecki/proposal-ecma402-datetime-style)

Last month: not sure about Firefox status.  DE will check.
V8 ship with Chrome 76

### Intl.DateFormat.prototype.formatRange (*skipped*)

[Proposal](https://github.com/fabalbon/proposal-intl-DateTimeFormat-formatRange)
[Firefox Bug](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1496584)

Last month: V8 ship with Chrome 76. The tests are all in.  We are in good shape.

### Intl.Segmenter (*skipped*)

[Proposal](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-segmenter)

Last month: extended discussion about RG's proposed changes.

Update: additional deep dive meeting with ICU stakeholders.

### Intl.DisplayNames (*skipped*)

[Proposal](https://github.com/tc39-transfer/proposal-intl-displaynames)

TC39 Update: Accepted as Stage 2

FT proposed the scope paragraph in the spec; needs review.
[PR #31](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-displaynames/pull/31)

## Discussions

[Board](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/projects/1#column-5001141)

### Intl.MessageFormat

Presenter: Romulo (RC)
[Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1RujNFCq3gH9TUEKDB_uFdKWNG1A1j2_NBCdnTmnEqv0/edit#slide=id.g5b6aec224a_1_72)

(on i18next)

MN: How closely tied is the serialization format?

RC: You can use JSON, but you just pass an object to the initialization of the library.  They just have an initializer.  There are some plugins that connect directly with the database.

ZB: With the boyfriend/girlfriend example.  How do you handle more complex language features?

RC: This library just does a quick key/value.

(on messageformat)

EA: I’m a maintainer for messageformat. One other key difference with messageformat is that it can be used at compile-time.

(on fluent)

ZB: There are two reasons we made our own syntax. (1) make it simpler for localizers, because they don't have to parse both JSON and the message syntax. (2) with the principle of least power, the syntax should be usable in the absence of any GUIs besides a text editor.

MN: I'm trying to understand fluent.  You talk about "localizer".  What is a "localizer"?  I work with "translator"; they are non-technical linguists.  They can't touch this file without extensive training.

SL: There is a front-end for this.

MN: But I can also put a front-end for JSON.

ZB: We also work with localizers with Firefox.  Our localizers work with this format.  We do want to use a GUI.  The principle of least power says that on the bottom end, you should be able to open in a text editor and edit it if you have to.

EA: If the baseline assumptions of the library is that it should support plurals, then the user interface from a translator's point of view should be more readable with Fluent than the one provided by ICU MessageFormat, for instance.

EC: I agree with what EA said about the syntax being a little tricky.  At least I know, if I need to work with plurals, and it's all there.

ZB: I also posted a link with more info on fluent - in particular the differntiators from ICU MessageFormat and GettText. https://github.com/projectfluent/fluent/wiki

(on fbt)

SC: As I understand it, a key design point here was for the developer to write strings using the templating engine, with a don't-repeat-yourself philosophy, and then have tooling convert that into something that translators can use.

(on goog.i18n)

NC: 

MN: The overloading is intentional so you don't "over-do it".

(open disucssion)

ZB: Launching something that solves some of the needs locks us down.  I think we should solve i18n problems correctly.  I think we should not standardize around something that is not complete.  Going by popularity only does not get us to this point.

MN: What do you think about an approach where we focus on the data model.  You give me something and I do the message formatting for you, and you handle serialization.

ZB: I agree with that

RC: I agree with that

DE: We had a discussion with framework authors about the distribution problem.  Distribution and serialization are different.  I like factoring it like this.  That we start with the data model part.

NC: For the distribution part, we have our ARB file format.  It is open-source.  MN and I looked through it.  We found problems like, you can have different syntax placeholders.

ZB: The same problem I think happens with escaping and unescaping in MessageFormat, which is easy to break and hard to get right.  MessageFormat doesn't specify a file format; it only specifies on a message level.  Fluent specifies syntax on a higher level.  It cleans up escaping, and it also allows inter-message references.

EA: I agree.  I think it would be a mistake for Intl.MessageFormat to implement ICU MessageFormat.  We're in a situation where the standard that exists is the ICU MessgaeFormat.  Fluent is a promising alternative.  The JavaScript implementatoin is still in 0.x level of development.  It's not ready for use yet as an Intl specification.  It hasn't had sufficient users outside of Mozilla in order to figure out all of the cases.  And, on the point about the unit of targetting individual messages versus bundles of messages is significant.  It makes it a much better basis for use for working with translators.

NC: What MN and I discussed is that you usually send the delta of messages.  You don't want to send the whole data bundle to translators.

ZB: The conversation about data model is not as trivial as we think.  Fluent justifies its existence based on the shortcomings of MessageFormat.

EC: I'd like to go back to priorities.  There's (1), the functionality: should support plurals, genders, etc.  (2) developer ease-of-use; functionality is always most important; in this case, I think we can have both functionality and ease-of-use.

(EC presents another draft)

MN: We should look at the philosophical approach.  In this case you need code.

EC: You are taking the pattern that you normally write in MessageFormat, and turning it into data.

FT: Usually in MessageFormat, a software engineer writes code in a language, say English, in the source.  Someone translates it to Thai, Russian.  But the translators are not technical.  So the division between data and code is important.

EC: We were talking about how there's a front-end to the fluent syntax, for example.

ZB: There are several assumptions here that you show you are thinking in MessageFormat syntax.  For example, you don't have message IDs; as soon as English changes, it invalidates the translation.  I would like to free us from the limitations of MessageFormat.

SC: We are talking about ICU MessageFormat as a fixed standard.  But, one path forward is that we could work to improve ICU MessageFormat, making it palatable for ECMAScript but also improving it for users in other platforms and keeping it consistent across the industry.

SL: I think we shouldn't focus on the translator's experience.

AH: I don't agree with that; when you require a conversion between the programmer and what the translator sees, you introduce complexity and the process is slower.

RC: At an enterprise level, like Steven was saying, we need to focus on developer ecosystem.  There is tooling around.

FT: I propose we pick a champion for this proposal.

ZB: My counter-proposal is to start by engaging with Unicode Project on the proposal for MessageFormat 2.0 and cooperate on that together.

SL+SC: That sounds good.

DE: We can even organize a separate sub-committee focused on the localization API. We have enough people both from ICU and ECMA402 interested in this.

### Intl support for Temporal

[GitHub issue](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-temporal/issues/129)

(SC describes the current state of the issue)

DE: I think we should have the working assumption that Temporal is a global object and update Intl.DateTimeFormat accordingly.

SC: Are we all happy with the path of retrofitting Intl.DateTimeFormat to support Temporal types?

MM (?): Why would we do something else?

DE: Maybe because Temporal introduces many new types, and we might want to put the logic in its own class or module.

MM (?): That doesn't sound like a good enough reason to make a new constructor.

FT: Intl.DateTimeFormat is built for Date.  When you have a temporal type, you don't have all the fields.

SC: Yeah, that's what the table in [my comment](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-temporal/issues/129#issuecomment-480134426) is supposed to represent.

DE: I will ask my colleague to write up the draft spec text.
