# 2022-02-10 ECMA-402 Meeting
## Logistics

### Attendees

- Shane Carr - Google i18n (SFC), Co-Moderator
- Romulo Cintra - Igalia (RCA), MessageFormat Working Group Liaison
- Rafael Xavier - OpenJS Foundation (RX)
- Ujjwal Sharma - Igalia (USA), Co-Moderator
- Louis-Aimé de Fouquières - Invited Expert (LAF)
- Myles C. Maxfield - Apple (MCM)
- Daniel Minor - Mozilla (DLM)
- Philip Chimento - Igalia (PFC)
- Yusuke Suzuki - Apple (YSZ)
- Eemeli Aro - Mozilla (EAO)
- Greg Tatum - Mozilla (GPT)
- Justin Grant - Invited Expert for Temporal (JGT)

### Standing items

- [Discussion Board](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/projects/2)
- [Status Wiki](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/wiki/Proposal-and-PR-Progress-Tracking) -- please update!
- [Abbreviations](https://github.com/tc39/notes/blob/HEAD/delegates.txt)
- [MDN Tracking](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402-mdn)
- [Meeting Calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=unicode.org_nubvqveeeol570uuu7kri513vc%40group.calendar.google.com)
- [Matrix](https://matrix.to/#/#tc39-ecma402:matrix.org)

## Status Updates

### Editor's Update

USA: Updates Intl.Segmenter to Stage 4

### MessageFormat Working Group

RCA:  We are having Extended meetings again in a weekly basis to cover

- [ ] Aliases / macros to expressions (#220)
- [ ] Message references vs. aliases to message fragments (#221)
- [ ] XLIFF compat
- [ ] Function registry
- [ ] Case selection
- [ ] UI Elements
- [ ] Metadata and comments
- [ ] Container format

Extended Meetings

   Prev. summary  - https://github.com/unicode-org/message-format-wg/issues/220
   Next meeting agenda and questionnaire
   - https://github.com/unicode-org/message-format-wg/issues/221
   - https://forms.gle/D9vVAHXxjXoq3hLP6

Intl.MessageFormat

EAO: Feedback from CLDR-TC about MFWG proposals to help unblock progress , by extending the recurrence of meetings we expect to improve the progress and move further fast

## Temporal Presentation

PFC : Presenting [Slides](http://ptomato.name/talks/tc39tg2-2022-02/) about temporal

USA: You mention that there are 7+2 Classes part of the Temporal proposal also adding some arithmetic operations. Is it a good idea to have localized representations of time zone names and calendars ?  Something that was enabled by the DisplayNames proposal. People are supportive to this idea ?

SFC: That’s a good idea, it could be open as a new issue. Having toLocaleString in Temporal it’s something I would support,  This could be proposed during Stage 3 ? My doubt it’s where we should start the discussion

USA: I think the best it’s if the committee sort of comes up with an idea about it and adds a toLocaleString method to the prototype since that sounds very unergonomic.

JGT: Wasn't the issue with the time zone display name that there are different ways you want to display it based on whether it is daylight savings or not? Calendar toLocaleString is straightforward, but TimeZone toLocaleString needs options that provide context that full day time will provide , sort of having a time neutral version, this was the main reason that we don’t have support for time zones like we have with calendar ?

SFC: Yes. Time zone display names are complicated.

JGT: So it sounds like time zone names need a lot of work on the ECMA-402 side before we could add it to Temporal.

USA: Sounds good , the question it’s if we are generally supportive of this idea?

SFC: The idea was that we don’t want to add a new API for that. We already had this proposed in DisplayNames v2, and we decided not to move further due the complexity. In ICU4X, we’re also working on a TimeZoneFormat class. There’s an argument to be had to bring that to ECMA-402. But ECMA-402 already has a lot of control over time zone display names. The extend-timezone-name proposal added more time zone display options, and I think we should stick with that.

USA: It makes sense to keep as is know, I believe it's fairly complicated to to write a, you know, a to come up with a snippet of code, that would localize a time zone, right? So, so I think the merits of something like a tulocal, string that sort of does this for you already.

JGT: Temporal would be supportive for that, I assume that work would be on the 402 side, It might be a starting point to add support for time zones in DisplayNames.

USA: Is it the case that the instant changes the localized name of the time zone?

JGT: Yes, because depending on the display options, it could be "Pacific Standard Time" versus ""Pacific Daylight Time".

USA: What if we say that you can't get the "summer time" version from this API; you can only get the general localization, like "canada time".

JGT: We should have the ability to display all those variations, the API in DisplayNames and toLocaleStrings would be the same

PFC: I was wondering if it would be helpful to open an issue in Temporal v2. We can use that issue to lay out the complexity here. Will that be helpful?

SFC : Yes, agree on having an issue. As for the question, what is the canonical name of a time mzone? I'd say there is no canonical name. We have the "generic" name Pacific Time, which CLDR calls the "metazone". But you have things like America/Indiana/Indianapolis that switches between Eastern Time and Central Time depending on the instant. The closest thing we have to a canonical display name is what CLDR calls the "exemplar city display name", e.g. "Paris Time". We currently don't carry that data because no-one could present a compelling use case for assuming the burden of that large data size. I agree with the spirit of time zone display names, but there needs to be more discussion and a compelling use case.

USA: I understand the complexity and supportive to start a discussion, in the case where we localize a single time zone, a question it’s what’s the expected output ? also think the localization should be a kind of 1:1 mapping applying to al set of time zones. But looks that at least calendar.tolocalString would be easier and have more support.

Additional CC excerpt:

> he should apply for for the whole time zone and not just Periodically to that
> time zone. But yeah, so I Understand that it's it's a complicated question and
> I'd be more than happy to discuss it on an issue, but I think You know, from
> from this it seems that at least calendars is for simpler from that. And and I
> think people are going to be supportive of temporal calendar or two local
> string, right?

JGT: Calendars looks straightforward , no strong opinion if this meets the bar for stage 3, PFC wdyt?

PFC: Don’t know if it’s a good idea to add this to a stage 3 proposal but this can definitely be a follow-on.

USA: I’m not proposing this to Temporal right now but do it in further discussions

### Accessing the sequence of eras of a calendar #598

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/598

SFC: (introduces issue)

USA: The way we've been talking about eras is that the properties this proposal might depend on, those were previously discussed in Temporal and ICU4x… not all eras are perfectly sequential for all calendars. We could potentially come up with something, but it would require working through a number of edge cases.

LAF: The main problem is that eras are not always in the same way. The Japanese calendar… in most calendars, you have 2, maybe 3, eras. The way you count years before year 1, if you do use the zero-year system, you don't need an era. If you want to count backwards from year 1, you need an era. We could not come to a consensus on how to represent that with just numbers. In my opinion, we might need to have an array of eras, and this would make it possible to come to eras with an index. But this is not totally possible with the Japanese calendar. Should we come to an enumerated way, with a numeric era? But in this case the Japanese calendar would have problems. Or do we have a system in which we could enumerate the eras and still have an index to distinguish them?

JGT: My memory of this is that there are 2 issues. (1) could we enumerate the eras so I can put them in a dropdown list? and (2) could you have numeric indexes for eras. We went through (2) and decided not to have numeric indexes in the spec. But (1) was still open.  Is that accurate?

LAF: I believe you're right, JGT.

USA: We talked about numeric questions , and we had consensus of not having numeric identifiers due that cannot be generally applied to all calendars, About LAF arguments, they agree that it’s problematic for Japanese calendars, might be supported in future by Temporal and ICU4X. Some calendars like Ethiopian calendar has eras but they also has errors which means that there is an invisible negative on error in these calendars

JGT: I think this is a problem of how to display an ordered list of localized strings, and an ordered list of string identifiers for eras. If there were a display names proposal for eras, this is what would be in it.

SFC: I think we need to understand the use case and design an API around the needs, I have a couple of questions (1) What other API’s do we need to provide the ability to build good quality DatePickers ,
What kind of low level construction would you need in order to build what you will need? That’s one way to approach this problem. We’ve dealt with this on an ad-hoc basis. On a higher level, developers between Temporal and 402 have all the tools they need to build a date picker. Temporal already gives most of these features, but will they be enough to make an Intl-aware picker?

LAF: I agree

JGT: Agree

USA: My proposal it’s once we have a shared understanding of a supported set of calendar we could revisit this issue if the outcome fits the needs?

JGT : The current Temporal polyfill already has a Data structure that defines era , in future in case we do an enumeration API for eras might be easy to support this by having this data in future

#### Conclusion

Revisit this issue as part of a bigger proposal about calendar display names or datetime picker components.

### In .toLocaleString() options, property-bag form of calendar and timeZone will throw #2005

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-temporal/issues/2005

JGT: (introduces the issue)

JGT: The question is - In the DateTimeFormat in the constructor for … have the possibility to pass a Temporal.TimeZone

SFC: We discussed it in the Temporal Champions meeting and I’m ok with this change, I support it. I want to see if YSZ or GPT have any concerns.

YSZ: I think that’s ok because Temporal it’s already integrated and I see as a part of it +1

GPT: It seems fine to me too.  My concern is if we're adding things with additional overhead.  But making changes to couple it to Temporal is a reasonable path to go forward.

#### Conclusion

JGT: We will extend the annex of Temporal spec to support this, due the consensus we have here

### Editorial: refactor intl spec #1928

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-temporal/pull/1928

USA: This is part of a bigger story of how to deal with non-=Gregorian calendars. There is no canonical documentation on how most of these calendars operate. Things like, "what are the different eras and where to they start" would require you to call the Coptic church and seek consensus. There are attempts at this, and the idea is to work with all the sources between Temporal and ICU4X and come up with a more centrally located documentation that covers the points that we need. One of the first and smallest ways we can start working on this is to define what the API shape is going to look like. That's what this PR does. It adds more specification to the Intl-specific operations so you have more information around things like, is a month code a string? Is the month a 1-based integer? And so on. There has been a lot of back and forth; it's a big one. I have a feeling that we're on the last set of open comments. I hope to address them soon and get them merged. The eventual goal is to have a specification around more calendar-specific things, like what is the list of eras? Where do they start? And so on.

JGT: There is a kind of two sets of behavior to specify: How do all calendars behave, and how do specific calendars behave? The second area is out of scope for this PR, but is something interesting to look at in the future.

USA: We are also working on this second area, but it’s unclear if it’s also in scope for temporal, we might address this question later on, I ask for the group to give feedback on this PR

LAF: I want to understand the consequences. Is the question whether we should support… should all the built-in calendars be supported? Or is it a question about… we should have more information about calendars? I want to understand what is required here. As far as I understand, in Unicode, there are 5 muslim calendars. I'm not sure they are all used. And there is not even the Julian calendar, which is the reference calendar for all European calendars from a historical point of view.

USA: You mean your question it’s intended for the calendar specific parts ?

LAF: Yes

USA : Unsure if this discussion it’s up to us, but supportive to collaborate on that with you, I think it’s worthwhile looking at julian calendar and access it

#### Conclusion

Continue to address comments and questions on the issue

## Proposals and Discussion Topics

### Intl.MessageFormat for Stage 1

EAO: Presenting [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1oThTeL_n5-HAfmJTri-i8yU2YtHUvj9AakmWiyRGPlw/edit)

SFC: I do have a couple of questions. First, about the shape of the API. The Temporal proposal added 7 new types (primordials). But primortials are somewhat costly to implementers. It looks like this proposal introduces even more classes. If you can change the data-focused classes to be Records & Tuples, it would align with editors' vision of ECMAScript

EAO: The actual proposal only has 2 primordial classes, these are MessageFormat and MessageResource, the MessageValue in particular has the type string, so that can be built as records.

USA: The main motivation of resistance against adding Primordial are because every new Primordial deed to do extra work. This could be bring major concerns, the ideal would try to have subclasses instead and won't raise so many concerns.

SFC: The second question it’s about why you were thinking that MessageFormat Resource functions should be mutable. Intl objects are immutable with only a few exceptions. Why do you think that we should have a mutable function here?

EAO: MessageFormat unlike the existing formatters fundamentally builds on user data. It is currently structured in a way that it would not be deeply frozen so the customizability of the data would depend on whether we want this or not, since this is a JavaScript invariant.

SFC :  R&T solves this problem

EAO: We don’t need at construction time all the messages that would be referred to. We may be in a situation where we can use an instance where a subset of resource files are used at construction but if we encounter an unhandled message, we could potentially add the resource without having to reconstruct the instance. Then, we can call getMessage again and get our desired response. This functionality within Firefox has been fairly useful to have a certain level of layering which has proven invaluable.

SFC: Okay, that answers my question. I definitely support Stage 1 for this proposal. There is a lot of discussion to be had but I support this. Next steps: for questions specific to ECMAScript API, let’s open issues to the repo that Daniel had made. Once this is approved, we can move that to the org. Once it’s decided we can start having deeper discussions. This is probably the biggest discussion for this year.

JGT: How do you anticipate the mapping between the datetime formatter and all the Temporal data types ?

EAO : No idea yet, TBD

JGT: If we have a lot of types and arrays and a few other things, maybe we can have JS types as the key instead of DT, you’d have that assurance.

EAO: We are keen to have those discussion over the next months

USA: Supportive for stage 1, really excited abou that

LAF : +1

SFC: +1

YSZ:  We are very excited about this proposal. It's pretty nice and supportive to bring it to stage 1, but before bringing to stage 2 still lots of things  to be worked out - syntax etc…

#### Conclusion

We have consensus for Stage 1 and add this for upcoming TC39 meetings

### Should we consider hiding lower-power fields in scope? #7

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-eradisplay/issues/7

LAF : (introduced the issue)

SFC: I want to have more input on this topic JGT , USA ?

JGT: I think this is interesting, apparently there is a straightforward work around that you can do it with some logic, in Temporal we have the ability to to compare the same localized year in that particular calendar, for me, the highest priority is hiding the auto option: hiding the "CE". I think it's interesting to do the other one, but since there's a workaround that's fairly straightforward, it seems like a lower priority.

USA: It’s not unusual to special case the era, most of the time the behavior of the era is hide by default, having a mismatch with examples like year that it’s not normally hidden by default

SFC : How do you implement those fields, my thoughts are about how to implement would feel about having multiple of these types patterns , this is implementable ? Right now DateTimeFormat’s constructor corresponds to a single pattern , if you have to lin to like seven of them we have in Temporal slots might increase the complexity of.

GPT: I think that would make me nervous: there is already some complexity. The current spec already includes a pattern in there. In SM, we do it in a way that reduces burden, but this would add more complexity and maintenance cost.

SFC: Perhaps we could design this in a way that would scale?

GPT: I was thinking of maintenance cost: era is definitely harder to deal with.era it’s difficult to work with, if i had to handle that case more automatically by providing more quality results would be nice, maybe separating out the proposal would be better for the more general use case

USA:

JGT: I don’t see this as a common use case to justify a built-in

GPT: +1. I’d prefer a workaround right now.

SFC: I think my conclusion from this discussion is that we should focus on the era use case and consider the general case as a potential future proposal.

LAF: I agree with SFC. We should focus on the problem with the era, and later we can provide something for the generalized function. The reason I made this proposal was that…

#### Conclusion

Focus in solving the eras issue and look into it in further detail in future
