January 30 Attendees:

- Shane Carr - Google i18n (SFC), Moderator
- Valerie Young - Bocoup (VYG)
- Caio Lima - Igalia (CLA)
- Myles C. Maxfield - Apple (MCM)
- Craig Cornelius - Google i18n (CCN)
- Daniel Ehrenberg - Igalia (DE)
- Brian Kardell - Igalia (BKL)
- Richard Gibson - OpenJS foundation, Oracle (RGN)
- Zibi Braniecki - Mozilla (ZB)
- Jeff Walden - Spidermonkey (JSW)
- Andre Bargull - Spidermonkey (ABL)
- Manish Goregaokar - Mozilla (MGR)
- Younies Mahmoud - Google i18n (YMD)

Standing items:

- [Discussion Board](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/projects/2)
- [Status Wiki](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/wiki/Proposal-and-PR-Progress-Tracking) -- please update!
- [Abbreviations](https://github.com/rwaldron/tc39-notes/blob/master/delegates.txt)
- [MDN Tracking](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402-mdn)

## Next Meeting

February 27, 10am PST (6pm GMT)

[Calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=unicode.org_nubvqveeeol570uuu7kri513vc%40group.calendar.google.com)

On-site invitation!

## Liaison Updates

### MessageFormat Working Group

- [Mailing list](https://groups.google.com/a/chromium.org/forum/#!forum/message-format-wg)
- [GitHub](https://github.com/unicode-org/message-format-wg)

SFC: We had two presentations. Discussed HTML syntax. We are going to make many smaller issues to breakdown work.


## PR Status Updates

### Normative: Add calendar and numberingSystem options (#175)

- [PR](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/175)

CLA: I added a PR last week for some cases that were not being covered on Test 262, so I think it's test-complete now.  Last month we didn't have tests, but now we have them.  I think it's implemented on SpiderMonkey, but not shipped.  So I think we're at a good point to ask for merging the PR.  But I think we have every checkbox marked to move forward.

ABL: There was an issue with lowercasing. This is also an issue present on Intl.DateTimeFormat and calendar.

DE: Are there issues filed for these?  There were other issues you filed about missing lowercasing.

ABL: ???

DE: Okay.  Thanks for raising this.  We'll get that fixed.  To be clear, this is ASCII lowercasing and uppercasing, right?

CLA: I have a question.  Is this an editorial issue or does it affect the implementation?

ABL: It's a spec issue.  otherwise the spec doesn't work correctly.

DE: This is observable if you look at resolvedOptions?

ABL: Yeah.

DE: Previously we were relying on the lowercasing in UTS 35, but now we have to specifically define it.  Thanks for mentioning this!

SFC: The only use case concern was Norbert's but I talked to him and he seemed to understand the rationale . Thanks to everyone who is writing the tests and the MDN and everything for this.

### Normative: Add dayPeriod option #346

SFC: Issue: Decide behavior with gaps in Intl.DateTimeFormat options (replacement pattern) #394

SFC: dayFormat - issue when you ask for discontiguous fields. And last month when steven was here we talked about that this should be brought up at CLDR. We brought this up in the CLDR meeting and they really liked this idea and handling it in CLDR using approach #3.  If we do nothing, this is something that probably just gets solved on the CLDR side.

ZB: If by default it starts adding months, someone will ask for how to _not_ do that.

SFC: If you have a year and a day in a duration format - that makes sense.  But if you are formatting a date, and you try to format the day and the year, that doesn't make sense because you don't have a month.

ZB: I agree. I am saying the name of the exact option… in duration format we want to add it now, but on date we might not. The decision should be made with both APIs in mind. I agree they are different.

SFC: Makes sense… Are there issues that are holding up moving this forward on the Mozilla side?

ABL: I would like to wait for the next ICU update.  I don't want to integrate each individual commit.  One thing we could do is testing the ICU master branch with Firefox.

SFC: I think the ICU issues were not API surface issues - given that they don't affect the API surface, is there anything that blocks implementation behind a flag - or are things making you not want to do that until the next ICU is available?

ABL: ICU doesn't currently provide the correct/expected output.  It's not about the API itself.

SFC: Next steps: I will also follow up with Frank about the v8 implementation - and we have the MDN stuff filed.  I think we are good here..

### Normative: Add fractionalSecondDigits option (#347)

SFC: I had some comments that Frank addressed.  Anba had left some comments and Frank had asked anba to ensure that changes were sufficient.

ABL: I haven't had the time to get to this, but I will.

### Normative: Allow calendar to determine choice of pattern (#349)

SFC: Merged last month.  Done.  Is there anything else that needs to be done on this? I think it's done.

### Normative: Permit relatedYear and yearName in output (#351)

SFC: This was merged but there was outstanding editorial issues, and tests, and MDN.  

DE: For MDN we're making good progress - Brian did a bunch of stuff, we have been tweaking.

BK: I marked it as done at the beginning of this meeting - I think we have passed the bar on this now. We can continue to tweak, but I think we have a point where we can say it is 'complete'..

SFC: Thanks.


(some discussion on https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/38 ?? I wasn't minuting this - I don't see the topic here?)

## Proposal Status Updates

### Intl.RelativeTimeFormat (Stage 4)

- [Proposal](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-relative-time)
- [Test262 Tests](https://test262.report/features/Intl.RelativeTimeFormat?date=2019-07-10): Good.
- [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/RelativeTimeFormat): Good.
- [PR](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/391)
- Last month: need to resolve merge conflicts and wait for editor approval.

DE: Still waiting on the PR to be merged.

CLA: I got a review from LBR earlier this week I think.  But I think I need a second review.  Maybe VYG could help?

VYG: I can do a review tomorrow.

CLA: Thank you!

### Intl.NumberFormat Unified API Proposal (Stage 3)

- [Proposal](https://github.com/sffc/proposal-unified-intl-numberformat)
- [Test262 Tests](https://test262.report/features/Intl.NumberFormat-unified/intl402): Only 4.
- [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/NumberFormat): Does not contain examples for this proposal.
- [MDN Bug](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-unified-intl-numberformat/issues/50)
- [Test262 Bug](https://github.com/tc39/test262/issues/2233)
- [SpiderMonkey](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1566410)
- Last month: SFC to resolve editorial issues

SFC: This is on the February TC39 agenda for advancement.  And the PR has been sent to ECMA-402.  Everything in the proposal repo has already seen at least two sets of eyes.

ABL: There is a new ICU issue here, https://unicode-org.atlassian.net/browse/ICU-20949

SFC: That’s interesting, I haven’t seen that, I’ll investigate tomorrow.

SFC: The plan is still to put this for advancement next week, but hopefully it’ll be fixed in ICU 68.

### Intl.Locale (Stage 3)

- [Proposal](https://github.com/zbraniecki/proposal-intl-locale)
- [Firefox Bug](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1433303)
- [Firefox Bug 2](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1522070)
- [Test262 Tests](https://test262.report/features/Intl.Locale?date=2019-07-10): Good.
- [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Locale) Live Examples - OK
- [MDN Bug](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale/issues/70) Closed
- Last month: need to review and merge https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale/pull/83

SFC:  The PR from Jeff was merged. Zibi says that we need new PRs to fix editorial issues.

ZB: I created some PRs that require review, they are minor changes and I hope to ask for advancement next week.

CLA: I can take a look at it.

ZB: It would be nice after we land this to look at internals, changing formatters to accept an Intl.Locale and use it internally.

DE: There's 2 parts.  The first part is allowing everything to accept Intl.Locale.  That's a Stage 4 blocker.  The other is editorial.

ABL: The proposal already modifies existing 402-objects to accept Intl.Locale.

SFC: Are still ok for stage advangement.

DE: There’s nothing to be resolved.

SFC: Do we still need the internal editorial changes throughout 402?

DE: Last time I looked it seemed complicated.  It wasn't clear how much spec algorithm we could save.  We should look at it later.

### Intl.ListFormat (Stage 3)

- [Proposal](https://github.com/zbraniecki/proposal-intl-list-format)
- [Firefox Bug](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1433306): likely to be reviewed/landed later this week
- [Test262 Tests](https://test262.report/features/Intl.ListFormat?date=2019-07-10): Good.
- [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ListFormat): Good.
- [MDN Bug](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-list-format/issues/37) Closed 
- Main blocker: bug with `type: 'disjunction'` in Spanish, [#45](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-list-format/issues/45)
- Last month: YMD is working on the fix in ICU 67.

SFC: The reason this is not for stage 4 yet is that we need specification change to change the data model to reflect the changes for Spanish.

DE: For Italian and Spanish, the conjunction and disjunction depends on the (last word?)

YMD: Yeah, the spec should depend on the last word affecting which form of and/or that you use.

DE: I’ll follow up with a PR to make that change and hope we can move forward to stage 4 on March.

### DateTimeFormat dateStyle & timeStyle (Stage 3)

- [Proposal](https://github.com/zbraniecki/proposal-ecma402-datetime-style)
- [Test262 Tests](https://test262.report/features/Intl.DateTimeFormat-datetimestyle): 16 tests.
- [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DateTimeFormat): Options documented (Missing Browser Compat-data)
- [MDN Bug](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-datetime-style/issues/33)
- [Firefox Bug](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1557718)
- [SpiderMonkey](https://searchfox.org/mozilla-central/source/toolkit/components/mozintl/mozIntl.jsm#830)
- Previously: V8 ship with Chrome 76. In SpiderMonkey (not exposed). JV: I'm working on the MDN docs with RC.  We have an issue to track.
- Previously: JSW: dateStyle/timeStyle that we mentioned last meeting also still on the list of "we should do the minor polishing needed to ship"
- Last month: ICU issues should be fixed. JSW to check Firefox status.

ZB: I have an open PR to throw exceptions with mixed options.  Is it OK that we don't throw when hourCycle is provided?

SFC: Yes, because it's fundamentally different.  It's a locale preference.

ZB: We do intend to propose this for Stage 4 in March.

SFC: Does that mean you also intend to ship this in nightly before March?

ZB: JSW says: seems likely we can.

### Intl.DateFormat.prototype.formatRange (Stage 3)

- [Proposal](https://github.com/fabalbon/proposal-intl-DateTimeFormat-formatRange)
- [Firefox Bug](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1496584)
- [Test262 Tests](https://test262.report/browse/intl402/DateTimeFormat/prototype/formatRange): Good.
- [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DateTimeFormat/formatRange)
- [MDN Bug](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-DateTimeFormat-formatRange/issues/12)
- Previously: V8 ship with Chrome 76. The tests are all in.  We are in good shape. Spidermonkey intends to implement, can’t commit to any timeline. JV: We have an issue to track formatRange for me and RC. VY: Test262 is complete; I reviewed the PRs a while ago.
- Previously: FBN: Currently this is blocked by 4 issues that were filed against ICU.  My intent is to start working on the issues in the next 1-2 months.  It means though that it is released in the Spring release of ICU.
- Previously: RCA - Interactive examples for  formatRange already landed, waiting for formatRangeToParts to be merged[MDN]

SFC: Agreement from CLDR to make datestyle/timestyle map to skeletons. Most locals would use the skeleton unless a locale wanted to override it.  Ticket: https://unicode-org.atlassian.net/browse/CLDR-13425

JSW: We probably need to update ICU. 

ABL: There's a patch but it's not checked in yet.  There were some ICU issues that we are blocked by.

SFC: The ICU issues have been addressed, but they won't be released until March (ICU 67).

ABL: We'll wait until ICU 67.

FBN: Are there any other issues beyond the ones linked from the issue?

ABL: I think those four were all, but there could still be more that come up.

### Intl.DisplayNames (Stage 3)

- [Proposal](https://github.com/tc39-transfer/proposal-intl-displaynames)
- [Firefox bug](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1557727)
- Advanced to Stage 3 in TC39 Oct meeting
- Add “calendar” option to get name for “month”, “weekday”, “quarter” and “dayPeriod”
- Last month: LBR: Working on the tests, planning to have them done before the next TG2 meeting.
- Last month: Date-related fields removed from the current proposal.

ZB: We have internal communications about payload increase.  It looks just shy of 1MB.  I'm working on one way to address that by reducing the number of locales.  I should have an update by next meeting.

SFC: Are you aware of date related fields being removed?

ZB: We are. The ones removed are the ones we already shipped and remaining ones are unshipped.


### Intl.Segmenter (Stage 2)

- [Proposal](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-segmenter)
- Previously: extended discussion about RGN's proposed changes. Additional deep dive meeting with ICU stakeholders.
- Previously: RGN: My plan still remains to push for advancement at the next TC39 meeting.

SFC: I think design issues have been resolved. Are there any new updates?

RGN: I expect the changes to land today and then I'll ping DE and the other reviewers.

DE: Can you describe them briefly?

RGN: We split 2 classes into 3.  The Intl.Segmenter object stores locale and options.  You call `.segments(string)` to get a Segments, which is iterable and has `.contains(i)` for random indexing.  So now we have stateless random access and stateful forward iteration, with room to add additional methods if we want to do so in the future.

DE: There is no longer cursor based (missed). Looks like the API looks the same, except for being more predictable with the random access.

ZB: We did an initial look at the API today.  I don't feel very comfortable about the size increase.

DE: About the size.  This is something that's been under discussion for years.  How are you going to evaluate it from here?

ZB: We raised this a couple years ago.  We don't want to block on this indefinitely.  We want to evaluate how it works in a low-data environment and see potential size increase with our products team. I just feel that landing an API (missed). 

DE: Where should we go from here -- specification allows for support for fewer locales.  I wonder whether you can implement this based on whatever other segmentation libraries you have in Firefox today.

ZB: That's a question we asked, but we need more time to evaluate that.

RGN: The changes that are landing are independent of the data.  The algorithms are the same.  Any concerns about the data backing the algorithm would land in the Stage 3 category.

DE: I would like to give them time to evaluate this before Stage 3.  It is a stage 3 (implementation concern) but identified for a while.
 
MGR: It sounds like an implementation concern, but it's also a spec concern.  The issue is that if people start relying on the behavior to be a certain way, we essentially de-facto mandate that this thing use ICU.  So we should be very careful.  That's why I consider this a spec concern.

RGN: That seems to be an indefinite concern.

DE: It could be that we find we can't move forward with Segmenter.  But do note that we removed line-break segmentation.

ZB: I understand your concern.  We just want a little bit more time since we've now had an opportunity to have more people look at the proposal.

RGN: Ok, if that's the state of things, I'll give a Stage 2 update instead of asking for advancement.but I think it's up for debate whether we want to keep this behavior. Any use cases you all can provide which demonstrate that the behavior is actually distracting will be really helpful. Thank you

MGR: The random access stuff, it does not make me very comfortable.  When you're in a situation where you want random access to code points or graphemes, your approach is likely flawed.  That's not universal, but I'm weary that exposing that to users might cause them to do something wrong.  I would like to understand better about the use cases for that.  Usually they just should just do iteration.

DE: Initially this was just forward iteration, and we added random access based on feature requests.  Part of the want was parity with v8BreakIterator and ICU.  So we wanted to cover all of those use cases.  But we have already heard some concerns about code unit indices making things difficult.

MGR: That raises questions about the use cases for this API.

SFC: Intl.Segmenter is an old proposal.  At one point it was at Stage 3.  At Google we really want to see this be advanced.

RGN: I agree, though I think it's reasonable to wait a month for Stage 3 advancement since we're otherwise in good shape.

DE: The random access part is a Stage 2 concern.  I added some links to the previous discussions. https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-segmenter/issues/9 


### Temporal (Stage 2)

- [Proposal](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-temporal)
- Preliminary spec text checked in; waiting for additional updates from Ms2ger
- Last month: agreement to move forward with calendar support in Temporal. Some details to be ironed out.


### Intl.DurationFormat (Stage 0)

- [Proposal](https://github.com/younies/proposal-intl-duration-format)
- YMD is the champion!
- Up for Stage 1 next week.

SFC: Temporal introduces Temporal.Duration and we this one of the motivations for this proposal.

YMD: Some more arguments need to be added: "rounding" and "hide".  People want to round the smallest field, and then if people are formatting for example 1 hour, 0 minutes and 30 seconds, people would want to display "1 hour 30 seconds".

CCN: That doesn't make sense for me.

YMD: Some people want to remove some data, example: “1 hour 0 min 30 second”, remove “min”.

CCN: I understand what you're saying.  I think it's a bad idea.  Because if you extend that to "1 day and 30 seconds", it doesn't make sense.

ZB: One year two days does make sense.

YMD: We would leave that up to the user.  The user can choose whether to show or hide or not.  The user can choose to hide intermediate values.  It can be a boolean option.  Especially in the wide format.  And for rounding, people want the last entry to be rounded.  They would have a fractional unit for the smallest one, and it may or may not be rounded.

ZB: Maybe something like this? Similar to DateTimeFormat.

```javascript
{
  hour: “auto”,
  minute: “if-not-zero”,
  second: “round”
}
```

CCN: I've also heard the idea of duration formatting be, say, we go from years to hours, but we only want to allow the 2 most significant units.  So if it's 1 year and 5 days, then we only show the first two units, but if it's less than years, then we might go down to hours.

DE: Is this processing that we want in Intl.DurationFormat?

SFC: We also have the Temporal.Duration API that we could change.  Something about simplifying units could go into Temporal.Duration.

CCN: It would make sense to have duration formatting as values change.  For example, a timer on a web site counting down the number of days/hours/minutes to an event.

MCM: I have a preference that the programmer shouldn't have to specify a whole lot of values to get something sensible.  There should be an "easy mode".

YMD: The timer, for example, or the duration for flights, we can suggest default values.  We could have a mode, like timer in flight or timer in game.  If the mode is flight duration, it would be only days/hours/minutes, for example.  And then maybe people could specify their own modes.

MCM: That's probably OK as long as there are only a small handful (~4) modes.

CCN: With regard to leaving out units in-between: with years/months/weeks/days, it makes some sense to leave out the intermediate units.

ZB: I'm not sure how universal this is across locales.

YMD: The user who uses the API and wants to format centuries, they know what fields they want and they specify them.  So in some cases, you can set hide = false, but in other cases you can do hide = true.

CCN: I guess we can make that flexibility, but it seems to me that there are some things that just don't make sense together to anybody.

ZB: We have this interesting case in ICU right now, where if you try to show the date, you need contextual data to inform that the second field is a second, for example.  This is something that has been coming up before.  My advice to YMD is that ECMA-402 is intended to make i18n operations correct by default.  If we believe that hiding the middle value is likely a bad operation, then it should be visible from your API call that you're doing something special.

YMD: This means that having only modes would be better and we shouldn't let them change the fields that affect the output?

CCN: Make it easy to specify a range, and if you really want to omit hours, you have a specific option for that.

SFC: TODO

ZB: In most cases you get Dates and Durations from somewhere else.  You don't make the selection of fields on the data type layer.  For example, when we format a Date, we pick the fields in Intl, not in the Date.

FBN: ???

YMD: If people have two timestamps and want to format the duration between them, the input is in milliseconds.

SFC: Should we accept a Number in milliseconds as another input type?

YMD: No, this is about the fields of the Duration being the fields of the Intl.DurationFormat.

SFC: I think math should be in Temporal, not in Intl.  But how about rounding?  Maybe we don't want 59.9 seconds to turn to 60 seconds.

YMD: ???.  When we round we should do it before we format.

ZB: Unless this is per-locale, the math should be part of Temporal, unless we can argue that different cultures round differently.

YMD: If the math is specific to time duration format, we should do it in time duration format.

SFC: I think we should try to make the math all on the Temporal side, and Intl.DurationFormat should optionally filter fields and display them, but no math.

YMD: So if you want to round the seconds, you should call a method on the Temporal side?

CCN: So if you round it to seconds in Temporal, you might have to bubble up to multiple different magnitudes of units.

YMD: We should say what is the smallest field to round.  You start at the lowest field and round it.

CCN: So you're saying that the Temporal object would have to be given the lowest field to round to, and then that goes to the formatter?

YMD: Yeah, the duration object should have a ?method which allows us to specify the lowest field and returns a new duration with the fields rounded and then we can format that..

For hiding, we should have the duration return "none" or something like that.

SFC: We support formatting of units, and formatting of lists -- so we have duration, even if it is not easy to use. If we don’t support the timer case then it is hard to justify this API.
