January 9 Attendees:

- Shane Carr - Google i18n (SFC), Moderator
- Valerie Young - Bocoup (VYG)
- Leo Balter - Bocoup (LBR)
- Long Ho - Dropbox (LHO)
- Daniel Ehrenberg - Igalia (DE)
- Jeff Walden - Spidermonkey (JSW)
- Caio Lima - Igalia (CLA)
- Romulo Cintra - CaixaBank (RCA), MessageFormat Working Group Liaison
- Craig Cornelius - Google i18n (CCN)
- Steven Loomis - IBM (SRL)
- Richard Gibson - OpenJSF and Oracle (RGN)
- Zibi Braniecki - Mozilla (ZB)
- Younies Mahmoud - Google i18n (YMD)

Standing items:

- [Discussion Board](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/projects/2)
- [Status Wiki](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/wiki/Proposal-and-PR-Progress-Tracking) -- please update!
- [Abbreviations](https://github.com/rwaldron/tc39-notes/blob/master/delegates.txt)
- [MDN Tracking](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402-mdn)

## Next Meeting

January 30, 10am PST (6pm GMT)

[Calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=unicode.org_nubvqveeeol570uuu7kri513vc%40group.calendar.google.com)

## Liaison Updates

### MessageFormat Working Group

- [Mailing list](https://groups.google.com/a/chromium.org/forum/#!forum/message-format-wg)
- [Next Meeting Agenda](https://github.com/unicode-org/message-format-wg/issues/12)

RCA: We had two meetings with the maintainers of i18next, Fluent, FBT, presenting their point of view on message format requirements. And we plan to start getting requirements on the GitHub issues, to start filtering and have stronger requirements to start building MessageFormat.

SFC: We have a good group in those meetings.

RCA: We will next be discussing our requirement list, so if you are interested in joining and contributing please come to the next meeting. [link for github issue about requirements](https://github.com/unicode-org/message-format-wg/issues/3)

## Discussions

- [Board](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/projects/2)

### Issue: [Make List of Supported Calendars](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/395)

SRL: How is this different that asking for a preferred calendar that doesn’t exist?

SFC: With temporal, you need a calendar.

SRL: I could see having a recommended list for a guide for implementations, but I don’t see why ECMA402 needs to have a list of calendar

DE: We have required numbering systems. It does seem like a fatal error if someone counts on a particular locale to be present but it is not.

SRL: It seems similar, I think ECMA-402 shouldn’t have their own repository of Locale Data 

SFC: If we had a minimum supported list, like we do for numbering systems, then a programmer can reasonable expected to be able to do math in the hewbrew calendar and have an expectation that this will work in all ECMA-402 implementations. We shouldn’t have a situation where calendar is supported for formatting but not temporal math. I think this makes it the most clear for programmers and that is a goal. We should consider if we want a minimum list or no list at all.

SRL: An implementation will want to implement calendars that are preferred in the locations they support.

DE: We hope implementations will support a wide range of calendars.

SRL: The small ICU case (which is not longer available by default in node) still does calculations in calendars it just doesn’t have localized data for calendars.

SFC: The question is whether we need to provide a guarantee that you can always do math in certain calendars.

SRL: It would be a higher bar for implementations. But there could be an implementation that only supports some locales, then it wouldn’t require all calendars.

LHO: From a polyfill perspective, this would be difficult, to have a list of mandatory calendars, because there is more to do.

DE: Part of the Temporal project is to provide an experimental polyfill. Are you talking about programmer effort or data size? Is it too much work?

LHO: It is a combination of both. The data size that the polyfill would have to ship with and the logic.

SFC: What if we just did “any calendar that is supported for formating must be supported for math”? We could add a preferred list later. The web reality is that all the browsers will probably support the same core calendars without us having to require it. Places where gregorian is not the preferred calendar are 4 regions. 

SRL: Should an implementation have to support a set to be conformant?

SFC: Seems like we don’t have a preferred way forward. We can kick the can down the road. Any more comments?

### [Decide behavior with gaps in Intl.DateTimeFormat options (replacement pattern)](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/394)

SFC: What happens if you specify a subset that doesn’t make sense. The existing behavior is an awkwardly constructed strings.

SRL: Should this a CLDR question to get a linguistic input on these strange combinations? Or to define which combinations make sense or are allowed.

SFC: Is there a way to get data for theses is a fourth option. Other options are: 1. garbage in garbage out, 2. throw an exception for things that don’t make sense (programmatically, when you have two units of time that are not continuous, like missing month), 3. Implicitly fill in the gaps. So if year and day, then add month. Give you the month for free, which is a 402 change.

SRL: This is trying to figure out a skeleton resolution. 

SFC: Going from options bag to the skeleton, so pre skeleton.

SRL: Is not necessarily what the user wants, the error.

SFC: This is a case we don’t know what the user wants. #3 could become a nifty feature because you don’t have to list every time unit, just the biggest and the smallest.

SFL: Still might not be what the user wanted.

JSW: I thought we already had this well specified. Provide the time units requested, plus any other time units required to make it make sense.

DE: I thought the same thing. What is the output this way? Does CLDR have weird formats?

SFC: IF you request fractional seconds, you get seconds. But in general filling in the gaps between contiguous units is not something it always does.

SRL: If this is a CLDR question, what should happen in the case where you gave a skeleton with month and hour. Maybe you should have units (Month: hour:) or be disallowed from CLDR? ECMA needs to decide what direction to go with for now.

LBR: Option one seems the most correct to me, from a spec or standard API instead of a library. We should have more strict requirements from a library. I’m not against the other options.

DE: THe current spec allows implementations to do #3 already.

LBR: #3 is doing normalization, which is what I expect from a library. I’m not against it but if we choose it we are stuck with it forever,

RCA: Having this normalization will mean that developers will rely on it. In some cases the extra feature will be nice, but I still think that is a library feature to add.

LH: Within the build tooling pipeline, we have a linter to prevent weird options. And we have not request to provide options for these weird combinations to be filled in automatically (#3)/

LBR: Number 1 doesn’t give us any extra work. 

SFC: The basic format matcher does allow #3. Implementations can fill in the month. I think it would be helpful to develop a bit more clarify about these cases in the spec, and make them not implementation dependent. If this should be implementation depenedent, then lets closet his issue.

SRL: I think we should ask CLDR to give us the linguistic data. Then the spec wouldn’t have to specify this behavior, because it would come from the data. Can we ask CLDR: if you have month and hour, should we fill data or throw an error.

CLA: We can have two different outputs from two different spec compliant implementations. How long would it take to wait for an answer from CLDR?

SRL: They meet weekly. I can put it on the agenda.

SFC: The reason I brought this up is because some of these combinations from the new PRs for options allow for a lot more garbage output. CLDR gives us garbage options. We have filled on issue for fractionalSecondDigits.

SRL: I think we might as well check with CLDR.

SFC: We can’t expect CLDR to provide local data for all of the cases. There are many combinations of options, and they are exponentially growing.  There is no harm with bringing this to CLDR, so let’s to it for next week and report back.

SRL: Are you going to file an issue and add this to the agenda?

SFC: I will put it on the agenda.


### Issue: [Consider error checking for using dateStyle/timeStyle together with other options](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-datetime-style/issues/2)

SFC: The case where we have datestyle/timestyle AND other options. What should the behavior be? The current behavior is that datestyle/timestyle wins and the other options are ignored silently. For this particular case, there might reasonable behavior to take a datestyle timestyle and modify it (like turning off year, etc). When we silently ignore it, but add the feature in the future, it might not be web compatible. Maybe throwing an exception is more web compatible, because we are removing an exception and adding a feature.

DE: I would be cool with having an exception here, because I am concerned about this misuse.

ZB: I think it’s fine to throw here, but, I think we are always trying to make the best case out of the input we are provided. We can change the output over time as we improve our ability to read the bits. I think it’s fine that we are improving. 

SFC: I agree. Even if we didn’t throw, it would still be web compatible if we changed the output.

CLA: What kind of error?

SFC: RangeError. I was looking at the reasons why we don’t throw. If you currently have datestyle timestyle its not web compat to suddenly throw. There is an argument that you can lint it if people don’t want it. I now don’t have a strong option, but I am amenable to throwing a RangeError, where I wasn’t before.

VYG: I think we should have consistent behavior here with the previous issue we were discussing, discontiguous fields.

SFC: We can’t throw an error on previous case because it is an old API and it would break the web.

ZB: There are 2 ways to display your date.  The old way is you give the fields, and we attempt to find the best skeleton.  If you have a combo that doesn't make sense, like year+hour, the job of the engine is to find the best skeleton that makes sense - the method of selecting the best skeleton is specified.  The The new method is, I just want to tell you the style that I want, and just select the best style. The style is per-locale, and the spec define the expectation that the implementation provide skeletons for the styles.
The new challenge is what to do when you combine old and new, and this is unspecified. That’s why suggest an exception.

SFC: There are other cases where we throw exceptions for weird inputs. There are cases were I was pushing back on exceptions, but we added some. I think this is a case where an exception is reasonable to have, but also changing the output over time seems javascripty. Maybe since this is stage 3 we should continue with the status quo. 

ZB: I would advocate for RangeError. It helps us clarify that this is an undefined behavior.

SFC: If the proposal champion thinks this should be a RangeError I am ok with that. Is this a change that Firefox would be willing to make?

JSW: Yeah, this would be reasonable behavior.  It's just an edge case.

Conclusion: Consensus. ZB will write patch and ask Frank for review

### [Intl.DurationFormat](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/47)

SFC: Motivation here is that we would like to support toLocalString on Temporal Duration Format. Options: Should we stick this in DateTimeFormat, or is it NumberFormat (because hour/min/seconds are units) or do we make a new namespace, like RelativeTimeFormat?

DE: Let’s do DurationFormat! I think we are going in the direction of overloading existing classes, like with plural rules.

SFC: Which should we overload?

DE: I assume datetimeformat. What are the implications?

SFC: It might make sense to do number format because they are units.. DurationFormat adds a “numeric form” (from ICU) like hour:minute:second. ICU is in the MeasureFormat class, which is like numberformat. 

YMD: The people are going to give the time in days or seconds only. What about RelativeTimeFormat. I think it should be added to it’s on class or datetimeformat. 

RCA: I think it is more in datetime format than number format, as a developer, I would look there first. 

LB: It connects more to datetime format to me. I prefer the new class to be more clear about the feature.

SFC: For overlap of options. FormatRange with DateTime Format and unit formatting in number format because of overlap in options. There are a lot of option sto datetimeformat that are not relevant to the durationformat. On the numberformat side, there are lot of options that are not revelent to durations. 
LB: From what you just said, I think from the perspective of learnability, having a different DurationFormat will help with learnability and explorability. 

RCA: I don’t think we should position durationformat based on intrinsic reasons. 

SFC: I don’t think there will be a lot of code overlap between DurationFormat and DateTimeFormat or NumberFormat. 

ZB: From my perspective, DurationFormat is closest to RelativeTimeFormat. It is a compounded NumberFormat which we don’t have yet. I would say DurationFormat as it’s own class, easier to deprecate once we incorporate into NumberFormat.

LB: I would like to see from the person who is championing this to explore these options, and present to group, with recommendation from findings.

SFC: Seems like we can’t reach consensus here, so It is not immediately clear what the correct answer is. We could discuss in the next meeting/

DE: Can Temporal be introduced to stage 3 before this?

SFC: The timeline for Temporal Stage 3 is the march/april meeting. We could maybe get this to stage 3 by then, but I think this should at least be stage 2 by the time temporal is stage 3.

ZB: A benefit of using a new API is that we can avoid strange option bags. We can decide to supply in the intermediate units.

LBR: Let’s do the research.

Decision: Stage 1 consensus. YMD will compile pros and cons of options and bring to the next meeting and present stage 1 in February.

## PR Status Updates

### Normative: Add calendar and numberingSystem options (#175)

- [PR](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/175)
- Anba found problems; FYT fixed them in V8. 
- FYT flip the bit to ship it in Chrome m80. (with #351 and #349) 
- Last month: JSW: Anba finished the patch I had sent out.  Only in nightly.
- Last month: CLA: MDN is updated. We need to update the status wiki. Test262 required.

DE: We need to follow up with more tests, we have a test bug.

RCA: I will add a MDN bug and link.


### Normative: Permit relatedYear and yearName in output (#351)

- [PR](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/351)
- FYT wrote tests in https://github.com/tc39/test262/commit/79591ae6c8f13f5c558576ad58846d80f33d0f0e
- LBR wrote: "I'd like to defer this to @littledan so you can pick the best description for relatedYear and yearName in their respective table."
- FYT flip the bit to ship it in Chrome m80 (w/ #175 and #349) 
- Previously: LBR: I tried to resolve the conflict in #351, but I would like to get that from Daniel, the author.

RCA: I will add a MDN bug and link.

### Normative: Allow calendar to determine choice of pattern (#349)

- [PR](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/349)
- Covered by above tests
- LBR wrote: "@littledan would you mind rebasing this one as well?"
- FYT flip the bit to ship it in Chrome m80. (with #351 and #175)
- Previously: DE to rebase the PRs. JSW: Off the top of my head I don't think we [need a SM implementation], but I'm not sure. SRL: I think I was supposed to get a test scenario for this.  But I think the locale data might be masked.
- Last month: CLA will follow up delegating Test 262.

SFC: Looks like this is good to be merged.

LBR: Merged!

### Normative: Add fractionalSecondDigits option

- [PR](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/347)
- FYT addressed Anba's feedback
- SpiderMonkey shipped (in nightly builds)  - https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1568134
- Last month: FYT: I need to double-check with Anba if there are any other issues he has.
- Last month: FYT to fix merge conflicts.



### Normative: Add dayPeriod option

- [PR](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/346)
- Last month: Blocked by ICU
- SpiderMonkey patch awaiting for ICU patches - https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1569103
- Last month: blocked by [CLDR-13184](https://unicode-org.atlassian.net/browse/CLDR-13184)
- MDN issue (https://github.com/tc39/ecma402-mdn/issues/6)
- Last month: ICU issues should be fixed. Need to discuss #394.

SFC: Day period is not blocked right now, except for getting the next ICU into the browsers. I’ll follow up with Frank.

### Normative: Fix off-by-1 error in PartitionPattern #392

- [PR](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/392)
- Last month: has consensus. Editor to review and merge.

LBR: Merged yesterday

## Proposal Status Updates

### Intl.RelativeTimeFormat (Stage 4)

- [Proposal](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-relative-time)
- [Test262 Tests](https://test262.report/features/Intl.RelativeTimeFormat?date=2019-07-10): Good.
- [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/RelativeTimeFormat): Good.
- [PR](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/391)
- Last month: need to resolve merge conflicts and wait for editor approval.

LBR: does this need rebase? Seems like there might be changes from PRs to proposal's repo since December 2019

CLA: I’ll rebase and update the PR

### Intl.ListFormat (Stage 3)

- [Proposal](https://github.com/zbraniecki/proposal-intl-list-format)
- [Firefox Bug](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1433306): likely to be reviewed/landed later this week
- [Test262 Tests](https://test262.report/features/Intl.ListFormat?date=2019-07-10): Good.
- [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ListFormat): Good.
- [MDN Bug](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-list-format/issues/37) Closed 
- Main blocker: bug with `type: 'disjunction'` in Spanish, [#45](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-list-format/issues/45)
- Last month: YMD is working on the fix in ICU 67.

SFC: Since we now understand the scope of the `type: 'disjunction'` fix and it is on track, I think we can move forward with Stage 4 for this proposal.

YMD: We went through 60-70 languages.  We found that Maltese and Italian might have issues, but those issues might have been fixed in language reform.  So we're going to fix this in code in ICU since it only affects a small number of languages.

DE: We also need to fix this in the specification level.

### Intl.Locale (Stage 3)

- [Proposal](https://github.com/zbraniecki/proposal-intl-locale)
- [Firefox Bug](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1433303)
- [Firefox Bug 2](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1522070)
- [Test262 Tests](https://test262.report/features/Intl.Locale?date=2019-07-10): Good.
- [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Locale) Live Examples - OK
- [MDN Bug](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale/issues/70) Closed
- Last month: need to review and merge https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale/pull/83



### Intl.NumberFormat Unified API Proposal (Stage 3)

- [Proposal](https://github.com/sffc/proposal-unified-intl-numberformat)
- [Test262 Tests](https://test262.report/features/Intl.NumberFormat-unified/intl402): Only 4.
- [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/NumberFormat): Does not contain examples for this proposal.
- [MDN Bug](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-unified-intl-numberformat/issues/50)
- [Test262 Bug](https://github.com/tc39/test262/issues/2233)
- [SpiderMonkey](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1566410)
- Last month: SFC to resolve editorial issues

SFC: I have resolved most of the editorial issues.  Ms2ger has been great at reviewing them and has also added additional Test262 coverage.  I still have a few more issues to resolve, and then I will open the PR against the main spec.  Should be on track for Stage 4 in February.



### DateTimeFormat dateStyle & timeStyle (Stage 3)

- [Proposal](https://github.com/zbraniecki/proposal-ecma402-datetime-style)
- [Test262 Tests](https://test262.report/features/Intl.DateTimeFormat-datetimestyle): 16 tests.
- [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DateTimeFormat): Options documented (Missing Browser Compat-data)
- [MDN Bug](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-datetime-style/issues/33)
- [Firefox Bug](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1557718)
- [SpiderMonkey](https://searchfox.org/mozilla-central/source/toolkit/components/mozintl/mozIntl.jsm#830)
- Previously: V8 ship with Chrome 76. In SpiderMonkey (not exposed). JV: I'm working on the MDN docs with RC.  We have an issue to track.
- Previously: JSW: dateStyle/timeStyle that we mentioned last meeting also still on the list of "we should do the minor polishing needed to ship"
- Last month: ICU issues should be fixed. JSW to check Firefox status.



### Intl.DateFormat.prototype.formatRange (Stage 3)

- [Proposal](https://github.com/fabalbon/proposal-intl-DateTimeFormat-formatRange)
- [Firefox Bug](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1496584)
- [Test262 Tests](https://test262.report/browse/intl402/DateTimeFormat/prototype/formatRange): Good.
- [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DateTimeFormat/formatRange)
- [MDN Bug](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-DateTimeFormat-formatRange/issues/12)
- Previously: V8 ship with Chrome 76. The tests are all in.  We are in good shape. Spidermonkey intends to implement, can’t commit to any timeline. JV: We have an issue to track formatRange for me and RC. VY: Test262 is complete; I reviewed the PRs a while ago.
- Previously: FBN: Currently this is blocked by 4 issues that were filed against ICU.  My intent is to start working on the issues in the next 1-2 months.  It means though that it is released in the Spring release of ICU.
- Previously: RCA - Interactive examples for  formatRange already landed, waiting for formatRangeToParts to be merged[MDN]



### Intl.DisplayNames (Stage 3)

- [Proposal](https://github.com/tc39-transfer/proposal-intl-displaynames)
- [Firefox bug](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1557727)
- Advanced to Stage 3 in TC39 Oct meeting
- Add “calendar” option to get name for “month”, “weekday”, “quarter” and “dayPeriod”
- Last month: LBR: Working on the tests, planning to have them done before the next TG2 meeting.
- Last month: Date-related fields removed from the current proposal.


JSW: We need to discuss whether people will be bothered by the size increase.

SFC: We removed the datefield things, so the spec only covers language, region, currency and scripts.

JSW: I haven’t thought about it. But Anba wrote some patches, I’ll take a look.

### Intl.Segmenter (Stage 2)

- [Proposal](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-segmenter)
- Previously: extended discussion about RGN's proposed changes. Additional deep dive meeting with ICU stakeholders.
- Previously: RGN: My plan still remains to push for advancement at the next TC39 meeting.

RGN: I’ll put on the agenda for the next TC39 meeting for stage advancement. I don’t think the open questions are blocking, and I’ll put them in the slide deck.

LBR: I will give the editor review in time.


### Temporal (Stage 2)

- [Proposal](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-temporal)
- Preliminary spec text checked in; waiting for additional updates from Ms2ger
- Last month: agreement to move forward with calendar support in Temporal. Some details to be ironed out.






