# 2021-12-02 ECMA-402 Meeting
## Logistics

### Attendees
- Romulo Cintra - Igalia (RCA), MessageFormat Working Group Liaison
- Shane Carr - Google i18n (SFC), Co-Moderator
- Greg Tatum - Mozilla (GPT)
- Frank Yung-Fong Tang - Google i18n, V8 (FYT)
- Sergey Rubanov - Invited Expert (SRV)
- Yusuke Suzuki - Apple (YSZ)
- Myles C. Maxfield - Apple (MCM)
- Richard Gibson - OpenJS Foundation (RGN)
- Zibi Braniecki - Mozilla (ZB)
- Addison Phillips - Amazon/W3C (APP)


### Standing items

- [Discussion Board](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/projects/2)
- [Status Wiki](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/wiki/Proposal-and-PR-Progress-Tracking) -- please update!
- [Abbreviations](https://github.com/tc39/notes/blob/HEAD/delegates.txt)
- [MDN Tracking](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402-mdn)
- [Meeting Calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=unicode.org_nubvqveeeol570uuu7kri513vc%40group.calendar.google.com)
- [Matrix](https://matrix.to/#/#tc39-ecma402:matrix.org)

## Status Updates

### Editor's Update
N/A


### MessageFormat Working Group
RCA: Roadmap for 2022 and did some progress talking about case selection and message integrity


### Proposal Status Changes

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/wiki/Proposal-and-PR-Progress-Tracking



## Pull Requests
### Stage4 PR for intl-displaynames-v2
https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/622

FYT: We have a slot in the next plenary agenda, PR is in review. We already have 2 browser implementations then we will ask for stage 4. This feature available in Safari?

MCM: It's already available in preview version
#### Conclusion

Consensus on aks for Stage 4 advancement

### Stage 4 PR for proposal-intl-extend-timezonename
https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/621

FYT: Same as the previous one , we have the min req. Needed to ask stage 4 advancement

#### Conclusion

Consensus on aks for Stage 4 advancement


## Proposals and Discussion Topics
### Intl.Segmenter v2  for Stage 1
https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1ezpdee0r_ujHXDqqT4HHNYa2Q4VU7b4cMQWg6gQxLTk/edit#slide=id.p

https://github.com/FrankYFTang/proposal-intl-segmenter-v2

FYT : Can I have your support to ask for Stage 1 ?

MCM : This proposal is not sufficient to solve the actual problem and should be worked on by the Houdini task force and includes a larger scope to solve the problem.

FYT: This feature is asked by a large number of people and is already available in Safari.

MCM: Canvas MeasureText is the wrong API to use in this particular use case. you've listed a bunch of use cases, and I'm not saying that those use cases are invalid and I'm not disagreeing with them, I'm saying that this feature should be implemented in this other place with a scope that gives them enough power to do it. We are giving the same feedback that we gave before, which is this proposal was insufficient to solve the problem at hand. And this proposal should be done with larger scope in the Houdini Working Group

FYT: Google Docs uses this API

RGN: I support proposing for Stage 1 , there are definitely use cases for line break in including outside of the CSS context

ZB: I generally support Stage 1 , but I worry about early conclusions if we advance to stage 1. I still believe that Houdini is the appropriate place to solve this. Stage 1 should be only an exploratory phase and not a confirmation that it should happen.

FYT: My argument about Google Docs using Canvas for this is because they shouldn’t use Canvas to do line break or text paragraph.

MCM : The intention of canvas is to intentionally not do layout, that's why this functionality was never added to the Web. Because we need to solve the larger problem of that the larger problem that Houdini is trying to solve

ZB: I support stage 1 advancement uniquely because the usage of Canvas is not the best solution and we should explore the problem

MCM: We do not support Stage 1 advancement, mostly because it is not granted that exploratory time will result in a solution for the problem space…

FYT: Should we present this to the plenary without Apple support ?

ZB: We can advance to stage 1 without with all this group consensus

MCM: I will be on the next TC39 plenary and will bring up the same concerns I’am sharing here
#### Conclusion
We have a  partial group agreement and  are going to present at the next TC39 plenary meeting without support from Apple
### Temporal requirement to Intl.DateTimeFormat internal slots  &  review/Feedback  - Ch15 Temporal proposal
https://github.com/tc39/proposal/issues/622

FYT: I’m currently working on Temporal implementation and I’m asking if someone can help review this, my concerns are mostly about the Internal Slots loading multiple patterns instead of one, I'm calling attention to those aspects because it very high potential to slow down performance and increase the memory size.

ZB: I generally share FYT raised concerns, Shane expressed that’s he thinks it's a shortcoming of architectural, limitation of ICU4C, and that he would like to try to solve it architecturally within ICU for C and ICU for X in particular. The idea is to validate Temporal and DateTimeFormat using ICU fo X solution but we are six months way from release. I imagine that right now trying to implement temporal will architecturally impact memory usage in all browsers. And that's unacceptable for a new feature, in my opinion.

FYT:  It’s not as simple as ICU issue, The model cannot be solved by the ICU , the complexity of the return pattern can cause different results and only one being exposed can cause difficulties on the implementation

YSZ: I’m also working on temporal implementation and we are concerned by posible decrease of perf or increase of memory usage,  we can look at it and might help by proposing a possible solution for this.

MCM and YSZ: There is not much description about this on the meeting agenda , next time would be helpful to have more information to be prepared for the meeting

FYT : My main concern is more about a procedural issue, how should we deal with this kind of problem, where Implementation find potential issues , should Temporal WG raise those or us proactively discussing them, do we need to devote time to discuss this issue  here ? This this affects a huge part of the ECMA 402 , my concern it’s this goes to Temporal working group or we should look at it as ECMA-402 or on TC39.

ZB: The shortest path is that implementers to give feedback on Stage 3 , it’s exactly what this stage is about, FYT just uncovered the result of his implementation but other going to have similar issues,

ZB: Shouldn’t the Temporal working group bring this concern to the ECMA 402 meetings instead of the opposite ?


SFC: I understand the FYT concern, the idea is that ECMA-402 should be the place to discuss this with unfortunately Ujjwal is not here today to discuss that.
#### Conclusion

- Review the Ch 15 to help find a possible solution, Implementers could directly raise concerns to the champions of the proposal and any further discussion can take place here.

### Strings Meta - Localizable Strings  - APP
https://w3c.github.io/string-meta/
https://www.w3.org/TR/json-ld/#the-i18n-namespace
https://github.com/w3c/i18n-activity/issues/1412
https://github.com/whatwg/webidl/issues/1025

ZB: Your proposal seems to be indirectly related to “localizable metadata”  and  “localization bindings” for MF2.0, would you annotate the field or resolve it against another resource ?

APP: The name Localizable might be misleading,  https://www.w3.org/TR/localizable-manifests/ , the actual focus is getting the metadata to refer to .

ZB: On MF we are thinking similarly having available this meta information

MCM: This is only immediate feedback. Adding a new string type that holds this metadata seems reasonable , it might be an object, not seeing examples of how to use this , what it’s the API or use cases for this metadata ?

MCM: In case we are passing those objects each API needs to figure out the metadata that need to be applied to

ZB: I recommend raising an issue, we are interested in localizable manifests.

MCM: About MF?

APP: I think this would be more low-level and is something that they would consume

#### Conclusion

Follow up offline - raise github issues about this

### Change Array.prototype.toLocaleString to use ListFormat
https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/422

FYT : We already discussed that last meeting. I won't work on this anymore. Does anyone want to work on this ?

MCM: Why is this being dropped ?

FYT : Isn’t easy to come up with a good solution
#### Conclusion

We should move the task back to the Backlog

### Intl.DurationFormat Issues
https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-duration-format/issues

RCA : Implementation feedback ?

FYT : We should update the implementation according to spec changes, I don’t see the proposal and ECMA402 Stage 3 updates for this proposal

YSZ: …

ZB: …
### Intl.NumberFormat V3 Issues
RCA : Implementation feedback ?

FYT : Updated implementation and sending to review , I see an issue on the rounding increment that it’s being difficult to implement. You can have different combinations that can produce the same output and readability issues aside from a bug already raised and validating if there is need to fix something on ICU.

YSZ : Already Implemented formatRangeToParts as well and it depends on some ICU data

FYT : My implementation might be the issue, have to check cause on bigger numbers normally cause those issues

ZB: It’s marked as green it’s ready


