# 2025-04-03 ECMA-402 Meeting

## Logistics

### Attendees

- Shane Carr - Google i18n (SFC), Co-Moderator
- Ujjwal Sharma - Igalia (USA), Co-Moderator
- Yusuke Suzuki - Apple (YSZ)
- Henri Sivonen - Mozilla (HJS)
- Chris de Almeida - IBM (CDA)
- Steven R. Loomis - Code Hive Tx, LLC (SRL)
- Louis-Aimé de Fouquières - Invited Expert (LAF)
- Manish Goregaokar - Google (MGR)
- Steven Loomis - Code Hive Tx, LLC (SRL)
- Zibi Braniecki - Amazon (ZB)

### Standing items

- [Discussion Board](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/projects/2)
- [Status Wiki](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/wiki/Proposal-and-PR-Progress-Tracking) -- please update!
- [Abbreviations](https://github.com/tc39/notes/blob/master/delegates.txt)
- [MDN Tracking](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402-mdn)
- [Meeting Calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=unicode.org_nubvqveeeol570uuu7kri513vc%40group.calendar.google.com)
- [Matrix](https://matrix.to/#/#tc39-ecma402:matrix.org)

## Proposals and Discussion Topics

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/projects/2

### Era codes for the Gregorian calendar: AD/BC or CE/BCE

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-era-monthcode/issues/26

SFC: We had a discussion among champions including the change to use the English names for the eras rather than the calendar names. More or less agreement there. Use the english name or a transliteration to determine era. Let’s make a recommendation. Skipping long intro because probably most in this call know what’s up, but are tehre any questions? Gregorian era “AD” or “CE”?

HJS: ISO calendar as global? Not as decisive as Gregorian. Preferred in all but three regions. Practically, in many regions…if you ask “what’s before 1 [whatever current era is called]?” they’re not going to say “-1”. So we need to treat gregorian as global, ISO as a spec thing. Gregorian is actually and in CLDR as in extremely wide use. Not persuaded by the point that we should consider it because the calendar exists. 

MGR: Gregorian might be global but we use common english names. Our audience is developers here, but not users. Overall, it’s fine to expect developers to understand more neologistic stuff. Most people would answer “BC/AD”, developers are more likely to recognize “BCE/CE”.  These are old conventions, but getting more use.

USA: Wanted to raise the opposite point. Given we had ISO, we should be comfortable using Gregorian/religious names. If the ICU data implies that Gregorian is more common, then that’s a mismatch and mental model brought by Temporal. So maybe let’s reconcile. Otherwise we have a model that would require a change in temporal, and it seems late for that.

HJS: To reply to Manish: that we have ISO calendar doesn’t mean we get to treat Gregorian as not global. Gregorian calendar is essentially global, so it makes sense to use CE/BCE.

SFC: In Europe, this is a religious calendar, it has been for centuries. In those contexts, AD/BC are widely understood. When countries without Christian influence adopted the calendar they used CE/BCE. The singular calendar we used called gregory… The localization of the eras is handled by the display names built-in. What we are trying to figure out here what the identifiers should be.

LAF: I don’t understand why the era codes are necessarily supposed to be perceived like this. There is already some confusion regarding the nature of the gregorian calendar. Let’s stick to this distinction mentioned by others and in ISO there’s no era so it’s not something we’d need to worry about.

PFC: we talked about this the temporal meeting this morning. To summarize: most important is: if we don’t confuse/surprise developers looking in their devtools for the BC/AD. As long as it’s not confusing, it’s fine. Soem personal preferences, but neither is considered mistaken.

YSZ: in Japan, ratio of Christians is pretty low compared to western countries. But AD/BC is integrated for like 200 years. Everyone uses that anyway, despite the low number of Christians in JP. In some Asian countries they use AD/BC without even knowing the religious background.

SFC: The thing that Temporal calls the gregory is the proleptic gregorian calendar. LAF previously pointed out that since its proleptic then AD/BC aren’t technically correct. These eras didn’t exist if we actually projected the dates for this calendar.

USA: To add to YSZ: in primary school you lean AD/BC but non-christnas don’t know what thay means. Only in more serious/higher education contexts do “CE” “BCE” come up.

MGR: Real world examples here. But we’re talking about APIs for developers here. There’s a growing norm in written text to not use AD/BC. Just like we don’t expect random people to write AP english – but we expect journalists. Again, this is about developers.

LAF: We are speaking of code and not about the display. It’s okay for me to require the website to use the most modern format to display but for the era code it’s just two alphabets in most cases. CE would translate rather awkwardly to French for instance.

FYT: I’m confused. I thought we wanted to follow CLDR and use gregory/gregory-inverse. Why are we still talking about this? 

SFC: There was a meeting in the champion’s group: universal agreement that gregorian. If you read “AD”, it’s clear. Framework is to use commonly understood names.

FYT: Till now, we are not defining those codes. We’re referring to CLDR definitions. We clarifty that we’re adapting what another standard body did. Are we changing our ground now, and use a different code? We need to address that. Looks like we’re shifting ground.

SFC: Previously, we deferred this completely to CLDR. The idea was to use the calendar codes as the era codes. We landed it in CLDR without consultation with this group which didn’t make the group happy. The idea here is to agree on what Temporal devs should see, bring the proposal to CLDR and then finally rubber stamp it like we did 2 years ago. We’re discussing it here because this group actually has strong opinions.

MGR: LAF said that these are about codes. That’s my point, too. Codes could be anything. To use older, not exactly fully politically correct versions, when we had full freedom, we can do better. For formatting, we don’t have this freedom. Thus, if nothing is protecting us, we can pick the new thing. Weird to not pick something better when there’s no user need that demands the old thing.

HJS: How this translates to French or Finnish doesn’t matter, since they’re codes the English alternatives matter. Is it worthwhile to push for the option with religious connotation of the BC/AD? Why would we be pushing for BC/AD in API and for formatting of course what’s common in a given locale matters.

FYT: If we’re discussing this, we can’t just discuss AD/BC but also casing and periods. No one uses lowercase “ad” “bc”. Either both uppercase or “A.D”/”B.C”. Do we want to discuss that? Lowercase things could work. They use uppercase in Europe. Do we want to discuss that?

EAO: strong preference for terms “common era” and “before common era”, which is effectively the default calendar, also in non-christian contexts. No need to be opinionated. No push for going against “BCE”/”CE”. So let’s use those.

SFC: Pulling in the CLDR chart here. English A.D. is translated to a bunch of different things. Just a small set of countries use the AD abbreviation. Anno Domini is Latin but the Latin name isn’t loaded everywhere. So I'm not convinced that A.D. is universally recognized.

DLM: support for the points that Manish and Henri and Eemeli. Let’s be forward-looking.

USA: to respond to FYT: I guess you mean display name or formatted value? This is just a string identifier. No one uses “lira” (lowercase) but that’s what it is. Needs to look like a string option, that’s why its lowercase, no punctuation.

LAF: I’m in agreement with what Ujjwal said. Manish spoke about signalling. What are we signalling here? We’re just setting up popularly used codes which are most commonly used by historians. The discussion is mostly very statospheric because it’s about expert/historic use. AA and AM are the eras (for the coptic calendar?). Let’s stick to the terms used by the original developers of the calendar.

HJS: we shouldn’t be attached who developed the calendar. The calendar was adopted far away from it’s development. We see the Buddhist and ROC calendars, which disagree with Gregorian original era. The origin of the era has been an adoption issue. Why would we, in an API, lean toward using the religious term when we have the non-religious terms? We don’t need to stick to where it came from.

MGR: HJS said what I wanted to say. Maybe it is statospheric. This is the growing norm in academic contexts. In the absence of any pressure we should move in this direction.

SFC: No new arguments, so let’s move on. In some way the gregorian calendar was “adopted”. Or: stolen; reinterpreted, by places where the original terms don’t have the connotations, which are probably in the majority. CDLR specifies this. We don’t split Gregorian. The academic “is this correct?” argument is…JS developers already have to use different formats e.g. for month-day-year. I think we should adopt CE/BCE and move on.

USA: Given the niche of these APIs, we lock ourselves out of changing these things in the future. So it’s prudent to use names that are gaining traction. They may be less well known but they can become more well known.

SFC: I think we’ve tapped out this discussion. No universal consensus, but CE/BCE seems to have a stronger claim. We’ll present this in TG1.

## Extended year for Chinese: What is the epoch?

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-era-monthcode/issues/27

SFC: As far as Temporal is concerned, the extended year definition can be summed up by “if you specify a year without an era, which era is the year expected to be in”. The open question is how to anchor this for the ethiopic and chinese calendars. Does the calendar have an era that is expected to be stable for the foreseeable future. Does it have an alternative numbering scheme that is stable? This is a nice system but the exceptions are Japanese, Ethiopic and Chinese calendars. We have different frameworks for the possible solution.

MGR: Are we not giving Chinese any eras? Or does it have a secret era that you can’t use?

SFC: That’s not part of the proposal. ATM, Chinese doesn’t have any eras but it does have extended year. The second proposal was to use eras inherited from another calendar. For instance, Japanese inherits them from the gregorian. The proposal implies that ethiopic would have AA instead of AM as the anchor for extended year.

PFC: We discussed this earlier today. It doesn’t make sense to talk about calendars inheriting each others eras. Its a programming concept but it doesn’t map to how people perceive calendars in the real world. I prefer Shane’s framework because of this. The only difference is that they have a different anchor year if we say they’re the same because they’re inheriting the same era then why would they be the same.

HJS: extended year is a programming concept. So I can see the appeal of Robert’s framework, where, in the Ethiopian calendar, we make the extended years compatible with each, The inheritance issue is also a programming concept. They go together.

SFC: This is the Apple developer documentation which has an enumeration for all the calendars. They don’t use the term ethiopic and emphasize on AA vs AM. One reason they inherit the other this way is because coptic inherits from gregorian. It’s odd that coptic should use AD as its extended year. Each calendar should be viewed in isolation. I definitely think AM makes more sense. Extended years might be the kind of thing devs use despite us not liking it. It’s not purely a programming concept. There’s value in making the extended year a human concept and it should follow the framework I had proposed.

SFC: I’ve heard two people in favor of Rboert’s take. Manish seems to be in favor of my approach.

MGR: A principle I have here is that I don’t have a calendar to have an extended year which maps to an era it doesn’t have but seems like it’s already the model for the Chinese calendar since it doesn’t have any eras.

SFC: HJS, did my comment change your position?

HJS: I can see the programming appeal of Robert’s framework but from what I understand regarding what’s more common in Ethiopia, the latter framework seems more distanced from how developers would be building apps in Ethiopia so I favor Shane’s proposed framework.

SFC: I think that’s enough feedback for us to bring back.

SFC: Let’s dive in briefly to Chinese. In my framework, we use the ISO numbering. I didn’t notice until I saw the temporal polyfill do it. So the extended year is ISO. The ISO number is commonly used. In modern times,. It’s used in the chinese calendar. E.g. year of the rabbit, then ISO number. So we can adopt this as the extended year for the Chinese calendar. 2397 BCE is a date that has some significance?

FYT: It’s not motivated by anything in particular.

PFC: It’s someone building a library like `date-fns` but on top of Temporal.

SFC: Epoch should be 2697 or 2698. Not sure which is better. Not sure what they’re advocating for. Mostly just presenting info, not taking a positon. I wanted to get feedback if we should use this info or go with ISO.

FYT: I’m confused. Because the years don’t align, so when you say “particular year”, what do you mean? Doesn’t it depend on which day? Very confusing.

SFC: I gave an example. Year-month-day in Chinese. End result month 1 day 1 of the Chinese year… 

HJS: One year in the Chinese calendar has a single related ISO year, right?

SFC: Yes, it’s the one with the highest overlap. Since the Chinese new year is early in the year they match for most of the year. As long as they continue to agree regarding the length of the year they’d continue to be aligned.

SFC: It would be nice to reduce the fields in CLDR. It would be nice if we had just one field.

SFC: EAO says +1 for ISO year. Louis also +1. Manish also +1. That’s enough, let’s move on.

HJS: Korean calendar?

SFC: Great point.

Mansh: I thought Korean has a stronger era.

SFC: Didn’t do my research on Korean yet.

MGR: If we do this only for China and not Korea, is that ok?

SFC: My rationale was to stick to a well known numbering scheme and if such a scheme exists then we should stick to it. But yes I didn’t do the research for Dangi so let’s get back to it later.

## Era codes for the Persian calendar 

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-era-monthcode/issues/22

SFC: Any objection to AP?

## Era codes for the Coptic calendar 

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-era-monthcode/issues/22

SFC: AM for positive era, BD for “Before Diocletian” era? And we advocate to remove BD.

LAF: Once again, I don’t see any evidence for using the Coptic calendar in the same way as we do for the Gregorian. It’s just a continuation of the ancient Egyptian calendar with the addition of the leap year. Otherwise they use the dates from the empire or from other events. Not a single evidence of the use of this calendar for anything other than expressing dates from ancient times. It was reformed around the same time as the Julian reform and it was coordinated to set the date of easter by the christians in the region. For coptic it’s only a minor change in terms of how they count years.

SFC: Strongly agree we should remove “BD” era. I’ve opened a CLDR issue for this. I’m advocating for calling it “BD” temporarily. But I would really like to delete it.

LAF: AM/AD doesn’t add much.

EAO: if the intent is to remove it soon, the name shouldn’t be “BD”. If it sticks around, it becomes real. So let’s name it something bad so it doesn’t stick.

SFC: “AM inverse”?

EAO: yes.

MGR: Era of people who are still alive.

EAO: “Before AM”.

MGR: Doesn’t matter much.

SFC: Giving CLDR uses “inverse” naming, I think we can use it here. We could also do “coptic-inverse”.

## Era codes for the Minguo calendar 

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-era-monthcode/issues/24

SFC: Couldn’t find an established convention for how these names are used in English. So I went with an english transliteration as fallbacks. Not sure how to say these things. That’s the proposal. “Minguo” and “Minguo jian”. Not “before Minguo”. It has a name in Han script.

FYT: If we want to align with the folks who are currently using the calendar, it’s currently used in Taiwan. There they use ROC and before ROC. This convention is actually popular in mainland China where the calendar isn’t actually used at the moment.

SFC: that’s a valid argument.

Manish: we could also use…. Taiwan doesn't use pinyin, but it does use Wade–Giles eh-ain . (?)

FYT: Nobody in Taiwan knows that.

Manish: That’s how everything is expressed on signposts in Latin. You go to catch a train and that’s how it looks.

FYT: Not for local people. For foreigners. Pinyin in China..elementary kids know how to do it, not in Taiwan. Only for foreigners.

Manish: The argument here is: the most well known name of the era is Ming Guo but we can’t write it we romanize it.

FYT: yeah, English.

Manish: no, “romanized”

FYT: Look at AD.

Manish:

FYT: Use Gregorian in French.

Manish: Gregorian is not only used in English, the ROC calendar can also be used in English.

FYT: Commonly used in French. “Common Era”.

Manish: My framework is: if there’s a common English name, we should use it. If it’s not commonly used in English, then use a Latin/scholarly name, or use a name in the most commonly used language, and romanize it. So, for “minguo”, this works.

HJS: The framework that Manish stated makes sense.

SFC: If we have evidence that people use the name ROC” or “The ROC”, we can apply that. But I don’t have such evidence. But without such evidence, I think “minguou” is ok. If there’s a better romanization, then we can use that.

Manish: Don’t think Wade-Giles is useful for the reason Frank mentioned. Romanizing into english, pinyin is common. Wade-Giles is more common in Taiwan, but not for locals.

HJS: Can we get the Wade–Giles form is the notes?

Manish: min kuo ch'ien

FYT: Found a website by the Taiwanese government that uses the ROC year convention. I could find more but I’d say this is sufficient.

https://www.mof.gov.tw/eng/singlehtml/f48d641f159a4866b1d31c0916fbcc71?cntId=0327035e7e524a2992f23b3b29cee676

SFC: sounds good, what about the backward era? You don’t need to find it right now, we can post it later on the issue. I have further evidence of an English name.

Manish: yes, though not in the context of a date.

FYT: find the search result of

https://www.google.com/search?q=%22roc+year%22+site%3A.tw&sca_esv=2020710c914fca4d&sxsrf=AHTn8zrW5XkRpg9FcGcJdOZJFtiwcxC_aw%3A1743704149754&ei=VdDuZ87ZLby_0PEP-Jb02Q4&ved=0ahUKEwiO2MGTvLyMAxW8HzQIHXgLPesQ4dUDCBE&uact=5&oq=%22roc+year%22+site%3A.tw&gs_lp=Egxnd3Mtd2l6LXNlcnAiEyJyb2MgeWVhciIgc2l0ZToudHdI0jlQmQNYgjdwAXgAkAEAmAFJoAG1CKoBAjE2uAEDyAEA-AEBmAIAoAIAmAMAiAYBkgcAoAfQBbIHALgHAA&sclient=gws-wiz-serp

SFC: let’s continue offline. Didn’t get explicit agreement for AA and AM for Ethopic, can we get that?

## Era names and codes for ethiopic #4

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-era-monthcode/issues/4

SFC: there were no english names but amharic versions transliterated to Latin were AM and AA. Any objection?

## Which Hijri calendars should Temporal support? #29

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-era-monthcode/issues/29

SFC: This is a similar issue from last week so we don’t have to rehash this. We discussed this earlier in the Temporal champions meeting.

PFC: We noted that these calendar IDs have been available in the DTF API for a long time and while they were not used in the same way we believe throwing might be a bad idea. A better idea would be to alias them to a different calendar that’s more usable for non formatting. Doesn’t make sense to throw these. Even though these are developer facing codes this might lead to political fallout. Similar issues exist for timezone IDs.

Manish: lot of users? Not convinced. The calendars we’re talking about are Islamic and RGSA. Tabular  and civil are fine. Islamic and RGSA are problematic. That’s a subset of a subset. They’re broken, do people use them? I know we don’t want to break browsers. But does it follow that we’re forced to retain support for these? We need to retain support for APIs that are already shipped. In temporal, none of these are shipped. DateTimeFormat is shipped. We can say: Temporal does not support these. You’d need to download data, download it, use an approximation for it. Until then,. In DateTimeFormat we need to. We have broken thing that has shipped.

HJS: I agree with Manish on the issue that the argument that Temporal can’t throw because they’re shipped is the wrong argument because Temporal isn’t shipping yet without a flag and for DTF we can make them not throw. The issue for the calendar is that there’s always going to be some error which you can get if you fall back to a different islamic calendar. It’ll be inaccurate upto 3 days which matches reality but yeah it’s impossible to make it more accurate anyway. Or should we fall back to gregorian instead? If we allow everything in Temporal to be formatted by DateTimeFormat makes sense. But we don’t need to have the opposite argument. Like we can choose to not support certain calendars which btw requires things like math which we are going to struggle a lot more with so I think it’s appropriate to throw for Temporal. We can pick an appropriate fallback in DateTimeFormat even if Temporal throws.

SFC: Things that don’t crash now shouldn't crash. We haven’t shipped temporal, that’s why we’re having this discussion. We don’t support these. Use the locale of the calendar, resolved from temporal. Pass this into temporal, that shouldn’t crash. So the decision we make here for temporal should apply to datetimeformat. DTF doesn’t throw. If things aren’t supported, it doesn’t throw, it just uses a fallback. We can discuss the fallback. I agree that we don’t want to start throwing. But we have a path to implement this. Others have said this, I’m just restating.

MGR: Thanks for addressing that issue in Temporal’s resolved calendar, which does need to be addressed. I like what HJS was saying about how we define these. Islamic calendar can literally just be civil for example. It’s equally if not more controversial to show someone the wrong calendar. Just earlier there was a controvery on the Arabian peninsula over moon sightings. We shouldn’t throw I agree but we need to work on figuring out what the fallbacks should be be.

PFC: replying to the controversy: it’s bad to show someone the wrong date. Another class of error that’s worse: appear to drop support for a whole country/culture. If we remove RGSA, we don’t want the story “JS doesn’t support Saudi Arabia”. That's worse that an RGSA calendar that shows wrong dates.

LAF: I think there is a simple criterion: all calendars that might be associated with a locale should be supported. For other calendars which are perhaps unused or experimental, in Temporal you may develop it as a private calendar. It would be nice if we can use DTF to format dates with it with a private system. It would fix the problem of having a special islamic calendar.

HJS: controversy is exaggerated. If we unsupport an identifier and communicate it badly, someone can spin it. Reality: none of the browser implement the intent of RGSA. Code it calls says “unimplementable”. So let’s not say we support RGSA. Oracle asked for it. CLDR minted it. Never implemented in ICU4J. Nor ICU4X. Nor ICU4C. In ICU4C and, therefore, browsers, it’s an alias for “islamic”. Doesn’t do anything Saudi Arabia sighting, as a matter of programming logic. It might, but that’s a coincidence. So RGSA isn’t meaningfully supported.

EAO: When we were discussing this earlier at Mozilla. If we change the behavior of an operation when people explicitly ask for an islamic calendar, it could be perceived a breaking change. DLM will add a usage calendar for Firefox to check how much they’re being used. But the system we use won’t tell us where they were used whereas I believe Chrome does have that capability. If you could track this in Chrome we would be able to make better decisions here. It would allow us to decide what fallback behavior would be less deceiving.

USA: To add to the idea of incorrect dates which don’t match observation: common experience with people using these calendars is that they’re familiar with this. They’re prepared in many OSs and software..they’re used to using an offset so they can fix the date. So political outcry or fallout of having inaccurate dates is probably overstated. For things that are unimplementable, that’s known, and reasonable fallbacks can be made. Optics of mistakes might not be great.

SFC: I don’t think we’re all talking about the same question here. I just want to be very clear that no part of this proposal means dropping support for anything. It only means that the specific algorithm that islamic is mapping to won’t be accessible anymore. My proposal is that if in DTF you ask for either of these calendars it would fall back to logic alternatives. For instance um-al-qura is a Saudi Arabian calendar so the idea that this would be interpreted poorly for political reasons is a bit of a stretch. We are moving to a model where islamic is more widely used and we can fall back to whatever the most appropriate calendar is for you. It’s unclear if we are reaching a conclusion.

MGR: EAO said that it’s potentially breaking from Mozilla’s POV because of changing dates. We haven’t talked about “if it’s broken, but one day we now know how to implement RGSA for past dates”. Would that also be breaking? If fixing the calendar would itself be a “break”, then the calendar is broken and we should document that. We document this as “we fall back to Umm al Khoura, but could fallback to something else”. Umm al Khoura is algorithmic and observational. In reality, ground truth is not the same as what is calculated. ICU4C and ICU4X have a hardcoded table. But the authority could say “ramadan starts today not tomorrow”. Then we’d need to ship a “fix”. I’d like it if we could do that in temporal. Then we would have a namespaced” umm al Khoura as we understood it in January 2025”.

SFC, LAF: +1

HJS: We should find out how this is used and the best way to do this is to look at HTTP archive and search for `“islamic”` and figure out what it is expecting. It couldn’t be expecting much. Atm for a developer you don’t have a great expectation. If you look at MDN it doesn’t explain anything. The comments don’t tell what it’s doing either so I’m pretty skeptical of existing developers who have managed to form a good expectation of what this is doing. If someone has experimented with it and if there’s code that has fixed gregorian inputs that would break if we change anything and if that exists to a level where that breakage is unacceptable then we would have to port this code from ICU4C to X.

EAO: My POV: accuracy/validity of what’s current;y provided behind “Islamic” and “Islamic RGSA” is irrelevant. If they have usage, and that changes, browsers emulate each other. Dates could be off by a couple days. . Looking at the archive or usage data, we should have some evidence that any action would not break the web.

LAF: A similar problem as for the islamic calendars might occur with the Persian calendar. In theory, the Persian year begins when the Tehran observatory says.

PFC: to clarify: “controversial” would be not recognizing an identifier anymore. The change that SFC sketched where the ID is still recognized but results in something hopefully better, I’d support that.

FYT: Any time for the future we’ll always have the possibility to change. The timezone is another factor that affects the result here and we can never guarantee that there won’t be any changes since governments change DST policy all the time.

SFC: Mostly agree. In the web platform, only Intl.DataTimeFormat. DTF retains ability and authority to change things. HTTP archive can give evidence. My expectation is that if the algorithm behind Islamic or RGSA changes, it won’t break things.

MGR: Shane made a good observation and people don’t depend on this string. What EAO is saying has implications for Temporal. If we actually wish to guarantee the stability of Temporal then we should unship umm-al-qura. The very nature of this calendar won’t allow us to uphold this notion of stability. It should hold for the other two as well.

EAO: umm al qura users have an expectation of this adjusting with observations. So no problem there. But Islamic and RGSA. Have they ever changed?

MGR: They are worse than umm-al-qura in this regard. It’s atleast somewhat predicted into the future, they’re even more fuzzy than that.

EAO: What is currently coming out of DTF, are they based on observations?

MGR: Yes.

EAO: We have decades of stability in DTF when you ask for Islamic or RGSA. No expectation of stability for umm-al-qura.

MGR: It hasn’t changed either. The code is super old. ICU4C has code implementing these that hasn’t changed for decades.

FYT: we do fix Islamic calendar bug from time to time, ex: https://unicode-org.atlassian.net/browse/ICU-22863 I think they are added in "Jul 7, 2013" https://github.com/unicode-org/icu/commit/09ac4ef907563c981085297fd275550a221c3cb6

HJS: realistically, unshipping umm-al-qura would be the controversy. It’s the official calendar meant for civil use. The calendar steward has revised thing. There’s supposed to be  rule, with forward-looking math according to the rule. The steward has revised the rule. But they don’t publish their ath. Unicode has obtained 300 years of computation results from the calendar steward. But we don’t independently run the match, we just have the results. If they revise it again, we need to take it as though it were a timezone change. The alternative of not implementing the changes coming from the steward would be bad. We need to look at HTTP archive to see what to do. If the code is so not publicly described, if the only way to have stability is experiment with certain Gregorian inputs…but we can’t have knowledge of what it does, and then things change.

EAO: HJS effectively said what I wanted to say here. If you have to reliably use the calendar you have to find the offset between a gregorian and islamic date and then apply that offset to the base.

MGR: It’s not a simple offset. What you’re describing doesn’t work. Calendars will give you errors if you give month-day pairs that don’t exist in one calendar but not another.

EAO: So it should be easy to show that what I’m saying can’t be done.

FYT: Code can change. We have bug fixes. Isn’t RGSA kind of new?

HSJ: I checked the history and it says that it’s a simplistic simulation that would be improved in future releases and that comment is over two decades old. It has a specific range it works for and outside that it delegates to other calendars.

SFC: Proposed Conclusion:

- Calendar identifiers currently accepted in formatting should not start throwing exceptions where they currently do not throw exceptions
- We expect that it is okay to remap the algorithms backing certain islamic variants in Intl DateTimeFormat (remapped calendar shows up on resolved options). However, we remain open to seeing evidence that this would break the web.
- Which implies that we expect it is OK for Temporal to use only the three algorithms which have some stability

HJS: Is it intentional that the third bullet point is vague on which identifiers are supported?

SFC: Yes, for now, but we should clarify that next

EAO: I don't agree with the second bullet point that seems like a reverse burden of proof

## Add test for Intl.Locale from "und" #4444

https://github.com/tc39/test262/issues/4444

SFC: Chrome returns undefined, not “und”. FYT has a fix. Anyone concerned? Not sure what Safari is doing.

SRL: The question would be: does this need to end up in tests. My understanding is that it’s a test bug and not a spec bug. Safari returns undefined. There was another issue that was filed and there was an in-progress fix for V8 but it was never actually pursued.

SFC: Any objection? Namely, to adding a test. USA approves. SRL approves. RGN too.

USA, SRL and RGN: +1

## Normative: Add Locale.prototype.getVariants #960

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/960

SFC: One type of concern was which type should we return and the second type of comment was if this is well motivated. If we believe variants aren’t deprecated or legacy we should list them out right now.

SRL: I can list why they're not deprecated and why they're used. They are used in language communities. On the IETF language list, Romansh… there are many idioms. They have variants. They would rather have ISO codes for them. And there are also many cases where communities have different styles for dates, times, etc, but they don't have their own ISO code. So they use variants instead. CLDR also supports variants and asks language communities to contribute data with variants. But variants are very much in use. They are not just used for orthographic distinctions, but also within communities.

HJS: Can you tell us more about why they’re advised not to use distinct ISO codes? Even if we fix this API, the ISO code would be how they identify their language elsewhere. Those languages expressed as a variant would be at a disadvantage in that context.

SRL: It is actually the opposite. CLDR is not the body suggesting people to get the same ISO code but instead it’s ISO which is stingy while assigning language codes. The other bodies are not granting separate ISO codes in these cases. They consider the content to be mutually intelligible. The IANA variant codes are consider the appropriate mechanism to distinguish between these. For example, the idioms of Romansh.

SRL: However, the state of implementation is inconsistent at best. This is a world problem with implementation. It simply needs to be fixed. I don't think not using variant codes solves anything. DOes that answer your question?

HJS: It does; this basically works around the ISO language authority's policies?

SRL: The Serbo-Croatian family has multiple top-level ISO codes, but that is historical. IANA says that if a situation is handled one way in the past doesn't mean it will be handled that way in the future. There are downsides to proliferation of top-level ISO codes. There are only 18000 of them.

SFC: Micro community variants is an absolute use case and orthographic differentiation is another use case and languages with these subtle distinctions should be at equal 

USA: To add another practical example, I wanted to talk about Basque. It's a collection of languages recognized as one language. But they are not all mutually intelligible. It's important to have the ability to express the variant of Basque.

## Normative: add notation to PluralRules #989

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/989 

USA: Long-standing issue. PluralRules never takes the notation of a count. NumberFormat and PluralRules can give different results. Adding a new option for notations in PluralRules. It’s a cop-out because it’s hand-wavy.

SFC: This was a long standing issue. I would expect the web reality would be matching this. I think we should bring this to TG1.

(end of official meeting; what follows is a breakout session)

## Should JS Temporal accept undefined or a generic string for the primary era? #28

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-era-monthcode/issues/28

Seems like we are all in agreement on SFC/JGT's proposal.

## Era code for the Indian National calendar #31

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-era-monthcode/issues/31

PFC: Seems like we should use the same as the user-visible output.

SFC: I wouldn't put too much weight on CLDR.

PFC: Yeah, if CLDR is wrong, then we should change CLDR. But they should end up being consistent.
