May 17th, 2018, 16:00 UTC

Contact Daniel Ehrenberg (littledan@igalia.com) for the link to the Google Hangouts link.

Attendees:

	Daniel Ehrenberg

	Zibi Braniecki

	Caridy Patino

	Eemeli

	Jack Horton

	Nebojša Ćirić

	Felipe

	Shane Carr

	Steven Loomis [late]

Agenda and notes:

1. Questions/issues with existing advanced proposals and APIs
    1. [Improve handling of non-Gregorian calendars](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/227)
        * Address [questions raised by Anba](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/227#issuecomment-389211876)
        * Plan: Present in May 2018 TC39 meeting
        * JH: We should probably stick to just "numeric" and not “2-year”, if that’s what CLDR supports
        * DE: Should we also support cyclic years or omit for now?
        * JH: Maybe leave out for now
        * NC: Leave for an expert? Did anyone file a request?
        * DE: I think the request came from Anba who saw it in CLDR
        * Conclusion: Don’t include cyclic year for now, wait for use case/request. Stick to "numeric" only for related year.
    2. [unum_formatDoubleForFields is marked as stable in ICU 61](http://ssl.icu-project.org/trac/ticket/13557)
        * Are any more APIs to make stable? Needed ASAP to be included in ICU 62. [unofficial 62 changes](https://gist.github.com/srl295/7b44fcb89f7e6d031ab44d2cdd8a1ebe#file-apichange-61-62-html)
        * JH: selecting plural rules with a specific number formatter is missing from 61, but that’s deliberate as it’s not the way forward.
        * DE: Should we be pushing that feature request?
        * JH: It’s just for taking the NumberFormat options into account when selecting the plural
        * ZB: We’re working around it by formatting the number, parsing it, and then passing the number to PluralRules
        * DE: Yes, that’s what we do in V8
        * JH: OK, we could do that
        * NC: We’re working on converting the ICU repository to Git (or Mercurial). If you have a proposal for ICU and willing to do some of the development. Otherwise, the Google side is pretty busy with the infrastructure for ICU.
        * JH: I didn’t quite understand why selectWithFormat was not supposed to be the thing going forward, but it sounds like the workaround is good enough.
        * SC: There’s an open issue where things are being worked on
    3. [Handling unknown codes for parts](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/231)
        * JH: I initially tried "unknown think we use “literal" sometimes and sometimes crash.
        * ZB: We skip the segments and avoid a crash
        * NC: …
        * ZB: One issue is that the unknown literal can’t be reproduced, so it could be hard for application developers. So, it seems like we’d need to be pretty vocal that "literal" is not just what you see now but also unexpected output
        * DE: Which direction does that point in?
        * ZB: Better to use "unknown" to force people to handle it.
        * JH: OK, let’s conclude to permit unknown
2. Stage 3 APIs
    1. Intl.Locale
        * [V8 implementation](https://chromium-review.googlesource.com/c/v8/v8/+/1014411) landed by Nebojša Ćirić
        * [SpiderMonkey implementation](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?format=default&id=1433303) out for review by André Bargull
            * ZB: Hopefully should land in 2-3 weeks
        * [Test262 tests](https://github.com/tc39/test262/pull/1553) starting to land by ms2ger
        * Locale processing done by each implementation--should be somehow in ICU?
            * NC: There is a bug on this in ICU, as it limits the length of the locale, whereas BCP47 locales are arbitrary length. We are working on improving ICU locale handling in general. This should help in general.
        * Review of recent decisions
            * [Add Intl.Locale.prototype.baseName](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale/issues/22)
            * [Add minimize/maximize methods](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale/issues/16)
            * NC: I thought it’s for v2?
DH: I think we agreed to put it in v1
            * NC: That’s fine, I think it’ll be easy to add.
            * NC: One thing is that it was supposed to have different names?
            * DE: I follow Unicode naming convention
            * NC: The result should be fully canonicalized.
            * DE: Yes.
        * [Refactor ResolveLocale in terms of Intl.Locale](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale/pull/36#issuecomment-389621874)?
            * JH: We don’t need to reuse it
            * NC: I think we should share the parsing part (validity). In fact, V8 uses ICU for both. The matching part is something that Intl.Locale doesn’t do, but it’s shared between all formatters.
            * SC: Even in ICU we have multiple sets of locales. It’s ok to not expose the actual locale unless someone needs it.
            * CP: We should not use a public object and use it in general operations. We should use a Record and share it between algo operations and carry around and only resolve it to Intl.Locale when exposing to public.
            * ZB: That means we’ll carry around a `LocaleRecord` and won’t have Intl.Locale methods available, instead we’ll have to call abstract operation minimize/maximize with LocaleRecord.
            * CP: Yes. That’s fine.
            * ZB: Sounds good.
            * Conclusion: Use a special Record internally for both formatters and Intl.Locale. 
        * [What should be the grammar to validate, e.g., calendar?](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale/pull/23#issuecomment-389355014)
            * NC: Is there a default for all fields?
            * ZB: No.
            * NC: Then I think we should throw.
            * ZB: I agree
            * DE: So, for keys that we don’t have defaults for, we throw?
NC: Yes.
            * DE: In particular calendar, collation, numberingSystem we would throw if provided with no value?
            * NC: Yes. We can either ignore those fields or throw
            * ZB: I think I prefer to throw if that’s not too much work. The only scenario when a language tag has a field with no value is when it was produced with an error. If we accept it we’ll just perpetuate an error.
        * [Option processing null edge case](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale/issues/40)
            * CP: We should throw.
            * ZB: We should throw.
            * ZB: Same as before. The only scenario when someone passes an explicit `null` is when they have an error. If we carry if further, then we perpetuate an error.
            * Conclusion: Let’s throw
        * [Throw exceptions for unapplyable options?](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale/issues/25)
            * SL: Seems like this example should replace 
            * Conclusion: Continue conversation in the issue
        * Stage 4 in July, if all goes well?
    2. Intl.RelativeTimeFormat
        * [Parts should be the internal NumberFormat parts](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-relative-time/pull/70)?
            * SC: Another way would be to swap type and unit, but I like this choice. If you want to get all of the unit out, it might work well.
            * ZB: I think Dan’s solution works here.
            * Conclusion: Land the patch
        * [Implemented in Firefox](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?format=default&id=1270140)
        * [Intl.RelativeTimeFormat.prototype.formatToParts API approved](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1YheKc9OHt4AegzB0NeaHo5wTzpS4ia2irqXQSYXSUm0/edit#heading=h.jr7nec16y88w)
            * Does anyone want to implement?
            * NC: No volunteers, we’ll see what we can do but are busy
            * JH: I’ll let our team know and see if they’re interested
            * SC: The assumption is that the owner of the ticket is responsible for it
            * SL: We know that, we discussed that, we’re looking for the implementer
        * No tests, no other implementations
            * V8 knows who will work on that, but no ETA yet
            * Charka it won’t be in Windows until at least the next Fall.
    3. Intl.ListFormat
        * No tests, no implementations
            * V8: On our list, but lower priority
            * Spidermonkey: The same
            * Charka: The same
        * Missing [ICU API proposal](https://ssl.icu-project.org/trac/ticket/13754)
    4. Intl.Segmenter
        * No tests, no implementations
        * Tests:
            * Unicode testing: [https://www.unicode.org/reports/tr14/#Testing](https://www.unicode.org/reports/tr14/#Testing) and related, ICU has [http://source.icu-project.org/repos/icu/trunk/icu4c/source/test/testdata/rbbitst.txt](http://source.icu-project.org/repos/icu/trunk/icu4c/source/test/testdata/rbbitst.txt) / [http://source.icu-project.org/repos/icu/trunk/icu4c/source/test/intltest/rbbitst.cpp](http://source.icu-project.org/repos/icu/trunk/icu4c/source/test/intltest/rbbitst.cpp)
            * [https://github.com/twitter/twitter-cldr-js#text-segmentation](https://github.com/twitter/twitter-cldr-js#text-segmentation) might be interesting
        * ICU APIs sufficient
            * JH: Is V8 Break-Iterator a sufficient implementation?
            * NC/SL: Yes, it has many features
            * DE: The (V8 BreakIterator?) API has a lot of ties with JavaScript front-end
3. Newer proposals
    1. [NumberFormat changes](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/215), including (a) restructuring the spec, (b) minor changes to behavior, (c) support for measure units, and (d) support for scientific and compact notation.
        * Open questions from last meeting
            * [Measure unit syntax](https://github.com/sffc/proposal-unified-intl-numberformat/issues/3)
                1. Style string
                    1. Consensus: "measure"
                    2. Revisiting: Actually "unit", to be consistent with the following options.
                    3. JH: I think in the context of a Web API, I might think "measure" has to do with performance measuring.
                2. Unit key
                    1. Consensus: "unit"
                3. Unit identifier
                    1. SL: I like CLDR to be the main spec for this
                    2. Consensus: use CLDR ID format
                4. Consensus: unit key = "unit"
                5. Unit width value
                    1. DE: Precedent in RelativeTimeFormat is long, short, narrow
                    2. SC: I like being consistent with precedent
            * [Compact and Scientific Notation Syntax](https://github.com/sffc/proposal-unified-intl-numberformat/issues/5)
                6. DE: LGTM
                7. NC: Do we want to keep all these things like compact-long?
                8. SF: It could be broken up into two options, but it seems like a separate setting is redundant. You could make the argument that it should be
                9. FB: I prefer them separate because it would be consistent with units
                10. SF: Or, we could make units more consistent. But, I like `style: unit`. So, this would be `notation: "compact", display: “short”`.
                11. JH: I’d say split, but I don’t feel strongly
                12. NC: Thinking about implementations, not sure if you have to parse the string.
                13. SF: Seems minor
                14. NC: Can this explode into more combinations?
                15. SF: This is all there is right now.
                16. NC: As humans, we make more mistakes if we have more complex syntaxes, bigger strings to parse.
                17. SF: OK, NC likes splitting, FB likes splitting, JH likes splitting, so let’s do the splitting.
                18. SF: Do we want to export some additional ICU settings for minimum exponent digits, exponent sign display?
                19. JH: What is the use case?
                20. SF: Fixed with scientific notation display. Cheap to add with ICU.
                21. JH: Cheap to add to non-ICU implementations?
                22. SF: Yes, they are cheap options.
                23. JH: But it’d take a bunch of spec text to add this
                24. DE: I think we should wait until we get feedback about concrete use cases before plumbing up this API
                25. NC: You can also work around this with formatToParts, though it’s a hack. So, not adding the additional features.
            * [Sign Display Syntax](https://github.com/sffc/proposal-unified-intl-numberformat/issues/6)
                26. SC: This is, do you show the + sign and when do you show it. Accounting format is here too. There are feature requests for both of these. I added these to ICU; there wasn’t opinions on naming there either. There’s a single enum for all cases, though you could imagine using a boolean here, with two orthogonal enums (show the sign/use accounting)
                27. FB: Makes sense as two options
                28. JH: This is my preference as well
                29. SC: We also need a key for this.
                30. NC: How about sign: auto/always/never/except-zero and type: "accounting".
                31. SC: Accounting is always currency.
                32. NC: Maybe instead of sign, it could be showSign. I like the removal of accounting over to currency. I do still like the single enum for ICU, but for JS it makes sense to move it to something that is seperatate
                33. Conclusion: Find a new key for currencyAccounting
        * [C API](http://bugs.icu-project.org/trac/ticket/13597) approved (necessary for 3 browsers)
            * Shane to implement
                34. Actually implemented and going out as draft in ICU 62
        * [Proposal repository](https://github.com/sffc/proposal-unified-intl-numberformat)
        * Plan: "Stage 0" at May 2018 TC39 meeting, "Stage 2" at July 2018 TC39 meeting.
    2. [formatRange/formatRangeToParts](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/188) (Felipe)
        * [Proposal repository](https://github.com/fabalbon/proposal-intl-DateTimeFormat-formatRange); [slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/e/2PACX-1vQXuKpkf-kHF4Ue-35PAez79EL2bTU-s3dGbQvj0zwOzbqnF1zJJif_RT8wV9v8VkI4agEzvBPbKOoi/pub)
        * Plan: Stage 1 at May 2018 TC39 meeting (presented by Sathya Gunasekaran)
            * FB: If this makes it to Stage 1, my idea would be to advance to Stage 2 in the July meeting. For that, I’ll try to have a proposal for ICU to add a FieldPositionIterator to DateRangeFormat which implementers can use.
            * DE: Any scheduling constraints?
            * FB: No, and Sathya does not either 
            * DE: Shane?
            * SC: Conflict 9:45-11 Pacific time on Tuesday
            * FB: When is the schedule finalized?
            * DE: We work it out online. I’ll ping you on email when it comes up.
    3. [BigInt.prototype.toLocaleString](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/218#issuecomment-370789166); [PR](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/236)
        * Proposal: Overload Intl.NumberFormat.prototype.format between BigInt and Number
            * DE: I’m putting my foot down and saying no smart overloading.
            * SC: This proposal seems good to me.
            * NC: This can be done in parallel? Is everyone OK with that, or should it be serial?
            * DE: Not sure what we’d be waiting for
            * NC: Can ICU format this?
            * SC: Yes, the other issue with this was asking if there’s an ICU API, but it’s the same C API as the rest that’s proposed for draft 62, stable 64.
        * Plan: Needs-consensus PR at TC39 to present in May 2018 (presented by Daniel Ehrenberg), to land when BigInt reaches Stage 4.
4. [Draft presentation for May 2018](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1wEkpdxC37t4sk64QThcna8c4753-9Ak1I23LNDmZ9KE/edit#slide=id.p)
5. Future meetings
    1. Any topics to discuss at the next meeting?
    2. Is June 21, 2018 at 16:00 UTC a good next meeting time?

CP: I’ve been on a long vacation, and now I’m back, but only for a couple months. We need someone or a couple people to take care of the next edition.

SL: I’m looking into how to get better feedback into ICU and CLDR from this meeting. I’ll report more on that next time.

NC: Maybe ask in TC39 for editor?

DE: Good idea; I could also be editor.

