August 16th, 2018, 16:00 UTC

Attendees

Agenda and minutes

[https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/blob/master/meetings/agenda-2018-08-16.md](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/blob/master/meetings/agenda-2018-08-16.md)

1. PRs against ECMA-402
    1. Any?
2. Stage 3 APIs
    1. [Intl.Locale](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale)
        * How are implementations coming?
            1. SpiderMonkey’s [ready to land](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1433303)
        * Any issues with testing? (Should be pretty complete)
        * Does ICU work well for backing an Intl.Locale implementation?
        * Other Intl.Locale issues?
            2. [https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale/pulls](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale/pulls) 
            3. DE: Does [https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale/pull/57](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale/pull/57) look good? OK, I'll land it
            4. DE: Any concerns about [https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale/pull/58](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale/pull/58) ? OK, will land it
            5. DE: Any concerns about [https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale/pull/59](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale/pull/59) , which treats kn better?
            6. SG: Change makes sense to me, +1
            7. DE: OK, I'll land that
    2. [Intl.RelativeTimeFormat](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-relative-time)
        * PRs out for review
            8. Any?
        * Issues
            9. [Review handling of "narrow" style](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-relative-time/issues/88)
            10. SG: It makes sense to show up in resolvedOptions
            11. ZB: I think you can't actually verify which format was taken
            12. SL: It's an error if the data is missing in CLDR
            13. ZB: By filling in the data or by falling back?
            14. SL: The CLDR root locale should reference short from narrow
            15. ZB: In this case, the problem will disappear, since there will always be short data
            16. SG: If it's a bug in CLDR there's nothing we can do about it, so it seems OK
            17. SL: The CLDR concept is that you always have all data for everything, even if some locales are aspirational
            18. ZB: Some locales actually don't have different short forms, in which case narrow will be equivalent to short, and it's as perfect of a dataset as possible.
            19. SL: I was thinking of listPattern with missing data [CldrBug:11254](https://unicode.org/cldr/trac/ticket/11254); this is a related situation
            20. Conclusion: File a bug in CLDR if needed, and close this issue as WAI
            21. SL: CLDR root actually has an alias… [https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-relative-time/issues/88#issuecomment-413603711](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-relative-time/issues/88#issuecomment-413603711)
        * How are implementations coming?
            22. [underlying ICU API (ICU-13256)](https://unicode-org.atlassian.net/browse/ICU-13256)
                1. DE: I'm not sure when I'd be able to do this.
                2. SL: In our new GitHub process, anyone can open up a PR against ICU to make this contribution
                3. FB: One of my colleagues implementing this in V8 managed to do a workaround for RelativeTimeFormat, and was able to implement it without it. For ListFormat, it's more complicated and necessary to add it.
                4. SL: If there's a workaround, it might be something that you can pick up and make into a PR. It'd be great if you could reach out to the colleague on this.
                5. FB: Yeah, I'll ask that.
            23. SpiderMonkey’s support is 2 ([1](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1483545),[2](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1473588)) test262 away from done
                1. DE: Does that include formatToParts?
                2. ZB: I don't think it does
                3. JW: The SpiderMonkey implementation doesn't have formatToParts
            24. V8
                1. FB: The implementation in V8 is complete except formatToParts; maybe we have a workaround that SG would know about. We found a bug in ICU ([ICU-12171](http://unicode-org.atlassian.net/browse/ICU-12171)) and are waiting for a fix to complete
                    1. SL: the bug above has outstanding design questions from 2016
                    2. FB: Someone from our team in Google is going to work on this issue
                2. SG: Are the test262 tests done?
                3. DE: I think they are done
                4. ZB: [There is a bug in the tests with Polish](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1483547#c3); there's a fix out for review. I flagged it, and ms2ger did the fix
        * Any issues with testing? (Substantial test262 tests landed recently)
            25. Including [a short/narrow bug](https://github.com/tc39/test262/pull/1681), that has a PR to fix
        * Other Intl.RelativeTimeFormat issues?
    3. [Intl.ListFormat](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-list-format)
        * Issues
            26. [Handling partial support of options in data files](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-list-format/issues/16)
            27. JW: How about we start out with RangeError for the missing cases, and we can extend it later if we decide to have support?
            28. SL: This is a sort of spec thing, about whether we want to make the image of supporting all combinations, or not
            29. DE: This would mean, you throw a RangeError when you use narrow without unit.
            30. SL: Yeah, let's do that and also document to developers that they should use short in this sort of case.
            31. DE: This could also be in the string for the RangeError.
            32. SL: We could add a sentence in the CLDR spec to call this out, if it's helpful.
            33. Conclusion: Throw a RangeError on narrow + conjunction/disjunction 
        * How are implementations coming?
            34. V8 is done, we just have the ICU bug that need to be fixed
                1. The FieldPositionIterator implementation ([ICU-13754](https://unicode-org.atlassian.net/browse/ICU-13754))
                2. SC: Regarding ICU features, ICU is now on GitHub, so it's easier than before to submit patches. Anyone can submit a PR. The bar to implement new features has gone down significantly.
            35. Spidermonkey [has the first iteration of a patch](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1433306)
    4. [Intl.Segmenter](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-segmenter)
        * Any thoughts, reviews, implementations?
3. Stage 2 proposals
    1. Congratulations on the results at TC39!
    2. [Intl.NumberFormat Unified Feature Proposal](https://github.com/sffc/proposal-unified-intl-numberformat)
        * SC: There are two issues on the proposal repository that we discussed on there, but I wanted to discuss with the group. #11 and #9.
        * [https://github.com/sffc/proposal-unified-intl-numberformat/issues/11](https://github.com/sffc/proposal-unified-intl-numberformat/issues/11)
            36. Proposed semantics: Have a list in the spec of all the measure units we want to support, put that in the spec, and that's the exact list that's supported. As new units are supported, add them to the list, and those are supported. We'd sync with CLDR releases or ICU releases and add them to the spec. If you specify a unit that's not in the list, you get an error thrown, until the new unit is added to the spec and the browser picks it up.
            37. ZB: It does look good to me.
            38. Conclusion: We'll go with that.
        * [https://github.com/sffc/proposal-unified-intl-numberformat/issues/9](https://github.com/sffc/proposal-unified-intl-numberformat/issues/9)
            39. Proposed semantics: When you specify compact units, you get rounding behavior, but you don't have an option in resolvedOptions that exposes it; you can override it with significant digits or min/max fraction digits. Special case just this behavior but don't expose an API to sent the rounding behavior on other types.
            40. Conclusion: No concerns raised, we'll go with that.
        * SC: These are the last changes that I need to make. The next step is to get them into the spec draft and start working with browsers?
        * DE: A polyfill, like in Intl.js, could be a good step, though it's not strictly a prerequisite. For the next TC39 meeting, let's land these fixes and ask for Stage 3 reviewers.
        * SG: Are there any new ICU APIs that we need?
        * SC: The C API for NumberFormatter is in as draft in 62, so it'll be stable in 64, in Spring 2019
    3. [formatRange/formatRangeToParts](https://github.com/fabalbon/proposal-intl-DateTimeFormat-formatRange) (Felipe)
        * [What happens when dates are the same? (#4)](https://github.com/fabalbon/proposal-intl-DateTimeFormat-formatRange/issues/4)
        * SC: Regarding the approximation pattern (option 3), the approximation symbol is planned to land in the fall release of CLDR, at least for numbers. Maybe we want to support options for these three choices.
        * ZB: I think we should pick one, either 1 or 2, and then consider adding more based on demonstrated need. I'm thinking 2, since you can get 1 by a higher level change, and then 2 can only be supported if we have it at this level.
        * FB: Which should be the default?
        * ZB: Well, I'm suggesting it always fall back to one of the options
        * FB: We could actually support multiple options the first time around
        * DE: My intuition is to keep things minimal, without adding additional options.
        * ZB: From a UI perspective, it might be strange to jump between range and not-range. Also, there may be not-displayed fields which differ, and so you can get same-date ranges anyway.
        * FB: ICU always does option 1, so we'll need to modify ICU to do anything besides option 1.
        * SC: The class DateTimeFormat is capable of printing out times, like 12PM. Does formatRange support that?
        * FB: Yes
        * SC: So I have to do some non-trivial math to check whether they will be displayed as the same thing
        * ZB: For that reason, I'm open to the idea and I like the idea of supporting both, but I'm concerned about the delay from an ICU change.
        * DE: They were flexible about the Java port for RelativeTimeFormat, and also we need an ICU patch for formatRangeToParts
        * SG: Should we follow the precedent of ICU here to not confuse programmers?
        * DE: We don't stick strictly to ICU; we've been smoothing around a lot of edges.
        * SC: To me, option 1 (the current spec and ICU API) seems the most intuitive to me, as US English speaker
        * SG: Since we're split, maybe we should start with option 1, and then consider introducing a flag for option 2 in the future.
        * ZB: I'm pretty convinced by this argument, a little concerned about UI flickering, but anyway in languages that I can read, displaying a range of equal dates is outside of what I expect. We can wait for a concrete use case for the other case, and add this as an option.
        * Conclusion: We'll keep the specification as is
    4. Romulo: In a range which is the same date but different times, how does it look?
    5. FB: What is shown is an option in the options bag. See the README in the proposal
    6. Next steps?
        * FB: There are a couple of other issues to work out. After closing them, my idea is to start going to Stage 3, probably will also try to put together a polyfill.
        * SG: And the ICU API, we need that before Stage 3. I think we need it before Stage 3 so that it becomes implementable.
        * FB: OK, I'll put together an ICU proposal for date interval formatting.
4. Newer proposals
    1. [DisplayNames](https://github.com/brawer/proposal-intl-displaynames)
        * [API shape issue](https://github.com/brawer/proposal-intl-displaynames/issues/4)
        * [Other issues](https://github.com/brawer/proposal-intl-displaynames/issues)
        * Delay until Cira can attend
    2. [Intl support for Temporal](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/254)
        * [date and time cycle is very specific (gregorian, midnight 24 hour time cycle) ](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-temporal/issues/79)
        * SL: You might want to use the fields directly from the Temporal object and set it into an ICU calendar object, rather than using a fractional seconds value.
        * DE: Please get in touch with me if you want to look into this further.
    3. MessageFormat (and Romulo's effort)
        * ZB: Update on where we are with this. There is only a single format that we'd consider at all, which is MessageFormat (ICU). Based on our experience at Mozilla, we'd be reluctant to choose that. We've been working on Fluent, which we've started using in Firefox in January, for our DOM UI and React-based UI. We're planning on presenting our 1.0 at the Unicode conference next month. Mark Davis reports interest in MessageFormat 2.0, and this supports all of those features, plus additional features for alignment with the web (e.g., human readability/writability). We hope to start this conversation with the Unicode Consortium in September; we're working on some edge cases; currently at 0.7. We hope this will be a good ground to discuss ECMA-402 standardization, once it's standardized at the Unicode level. I don't know of another effort in this area.
        * Romulo: I see lots of positive things about Fluent. I was wondering about manipulation of the DOM, but I see you're doing lots of things, and the syntax/grammar looks very intuitive. I don't know how some parts work; I need to try it.
        * ZB: Please review, this is the right time.
        * ZB: Links:
            41. [https://projectfluent.org/](https://projectfluent.org/)
            42. Main wiki: [https://github.com/projectfluent/fluent/wiki](https://github.com/projectfluent/fluent/wiki)
            43. React: [https://github.com/projectfluent/fluent.js/tree/master/fluent-react](https://github.com/projectfluent/fluent.js/tree/master/fluent-react)
            44. Other bindings: Vanilla DOM, Python, Rust
            45. RFC 0.7: [https://discourse.mozilla.org/t/syntax-0-7-rfc1-until-friday-august-10/30679?u=zbraniecki](https://discourse.mozilla.org/t/syntax-0-7-rfc1-until-friday-august-10/30679?u=zbraniecki)
        * I went to a Facebook tech talk where the engineer presented FBT, which is Facebook's semi-official translation library for React, which they are supposed to be open-sourcing soon. It includes MessageFormat-like strings in React templates, and was focused on going from a template into a form that translators could translate easily. You might be looking out for that, when it's open-sourced in the next couple months.
5. Communication
    1. Real-time communication: Should we restart the ECMA-402 Slack channel? Or use IRC? Or stick to monthly meetings?
        * SL: We have a Slack at [https://team-ecmascript.slack.com](https://team-ecmascript.slack.com) / [https://team-ecmascript.slack.com/messages/C040MA3AD](https://team-ecmascript.slack.com/messages/C040MA3AD) - low activity here
            46. Let's discuss it on #tc39
        * ZB: IRC would be fine, since we have TC39 IRC ( #tc39 on freenode ) 
        * SG: When I had
        * DE: We should make a posting on the TC39 repository (telling people how to get to the channel)
        * DE: I don’t mind issues being filed on repositories; it’s good for history
        * SC: Can we make a channel on the Unicode Consortium channel?  This is what ICU uses
        * ZB: The Ecma Slack channel is active and has lots of members who might be interested
        * Let’s create a GitHub issue and discuss on that.
    2. Liaison relationship between the Intl group and Unicode/CLDR/ICU?
        * SL: A question here is whether liason is with ECMA as a whole, or TC39 or specifically this WG.
        * DE will follow up with ECMA secretariat and get back to SL

    3. Working with the [W3C i18n](http://w3c.github.io/i18n-activity/i18n-wg/) WG
6. Future meetings
    1. Any topics to discuss at the next meeting?
    2. Is September 20, 2018 at 16:00 UTC a good next meeting time?

#### **Overflow**

If we somehow have additional time, additional features to discuss (most likely to overflow into the next meeting)

1. New proposals
    1. Additional Locale features
        1. [Intl.getParentLocales](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/87)
        2. [Directionality of scripts](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/205)
        3. [First day of the week](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/6)
    2. HTML proposals
        1. [navigator.locale](https://github.com/whatwg/html/pull/3046)
        2. [timezonechange](https://github.com/whatwg/html/pull/3047)
    3. [API for reading Unicode properties](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/90)
    4. Additional options
        1. [dateStyle/timeStyle](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-ecma402-datetime-style) (Stage 1)
        2. [Need "symbo-alt-narrow" for Int.NumberFormat options.currencyDisplay](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/200)
        3. [DateTimeFormat: add 'skeleton' support](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/189)
        4. [DateTimeFormat: add support options.raw (aka pattern)](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/190)
        5. [DateTimeFormat: consider adding more timezone display options](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/119)
        6. [[Proposal] Compact Decimal Format to abbreviate large numbers](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/37)
        7. [Expose ability to produce a base form of the word used by Collator](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/44)
    5. [case fold](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/99), title case
    6. [Hyphenation](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/93)
    7. [What should we do about the specification's implementation-dependent behavior?](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/113)
