# 2022-07-07 ECMA-402 Meeting

## Logistics

### Attendees

- Shane Carr - Google i18n (SFC), Co-Moderator
- Romulo Cintra - Igalia (RCA), MessageFormat Working Group Liaison
- Ujjwal Sharma - Igalia (USA), Co-Moderator
- Daniel Minor - Mozilla (DLM)
- Yusuke Suzuki - Apple (YSZ)
- Frank Yung-Fong Tang - Google i18n, V8 (FYT)
- Richard Gibson - OpenJS Foundation (RGN)
- Quinn Okabayashi - Google (QMO)

### Standing items

- [Discussion Board](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/projects/2)
- [Status Wiki](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/wiki/Proposal-and-PR-Progress-Tracking) -- please update!
- [Abbreviations](https://github.com/tc39/notes/blob/HEAD/delegates.txt)
- [MDN Tracking](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402-mdn)
- [Meeting Calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=unicode.org_nubvqveeeol570uuu7kri513vc%40group.calendar.google.com)
- [Matrix](https://matrix.to/#/#tc39-ecma402:matrix.org)

## Status Updates

### Editor's Update

USA : No updates except for the fact we have a draft for the .pdf version of the spec. We are trying to get some help on publishing it and we expect to have it soon.

RGN : Enums PR are replacing language values, following 262 conventions.

FYT: Can you show an example?

SFC: Is there a PR?

RGN: https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/689/files and https://tc39.es/ecma402/#sec-getoption  this change might be propagated by the spec as soon we have an opportunity to do it.

SFC:  Interesting how the EC Markup decided to use sans-serif to style enum values

RGN : Yeah there are a lot of styles not very well documented bold , italic etc …

FYT: Are the long tables in the PDF fully visible?

RGN: Yes.

FYT: The issue is the number systems table and units tables are broken.

SFC: The tables wrap now.

FYT: The content is more important.

RGN: I specifically checked the tables.

RGN : This PDF it’s the one I expected to be the 2022 edition https://wirfs-brock.com/allen/exp/402-9-pagedjs-final-2022-7-5.pdf#page=18

### MessageFormat Working Group

RCA: Continuing to progress on the tech preview for next fall. Working on the Java implementation. Hope to have it by mid August.

### Proposal Status Changes

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/wiki/Proposal-and-PR-Progress-Tracking

FYT: My proposal is already tracked in Stage 0 proposals page. There’s a link to it from the 402 github. I need to ask about people’s opinions regarding stage advancement.

SFC: Are you  ready to talk about Temporal today?

FYT : We can talk about it later , I wanted to get some feedback from the group

SFC: Sounds good

#### Intl.NumberFormat V3

FYT: Intl.NumberFormat V3 will ship in Chrome soon. I missed 105 shipping but will propose ship it on Chromium 106 mid september

SFC: Do you know if V8 reflects actual spec

FYT : It should reflect current spec text

SFC: We should prioritize get spec written to #96-97-98  issues

RCA : I have a draft for the roundingIncrement issue

SFC: I’m checking the meeting notes around #98. Will you take this one on? I’m thinking of giving a presentation.

RCA: This might be affected by `toIntlMathematicalValue`.

SFC: Will give an update at the next plenary. Thanks for the implementation.

FYT: One problem with exponents. If ICU would have a limitation, would we follow? Will we throw in case of conflicts or if limit of exponent it’s surpassed ?

SFC : The proposal it’s limit it to  10k exponent otherwise Infinity , that’s right FYT?

FYT:  First issue it’s that this might if this it’s an observable behavior or not ,  we can consider observable if that format we use Infinity,
When we use ICU implementation a much smaller value will be formatted as Inifinity

SFC: That’s the question about exponents. Should we match ICU behavior? It should allow us to format larger numbers.

FYT: That’s the thing, I’m not sure if it can be implemented.

SFC: I have to propose that we spec this and write tests and then address it on the engine side.

FYT: If it’s hard we can change back to a smaller value, right?

FYT: I'll write an ICU test for this behavior.

##### Conclusion

Implement the changes in https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-numberformat-v3/issues/98 according to what we agreed upon in the 2022-05 meeting, including full Test 262 coverage, then test all of the browser implementations against it and see whether or not it is implementable that way.

## Proposals and Discussion Topics

### Relax the ordering requirement on formatRange and selectRange functions

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/692

SFC: (introduces issue)

FYT: Intl.NumberFormat is modeled on Intl.DateTimeFormat. However, there are two issues. First, checking the range introduces implementation complexity. Second, it rules out legitimate use cases. An example use case is a cycle of angles, or a cycle of time values. I may prefer if we make the change to Intl.NumberFormat v3 first, and then address Intl.DateTimeFormat. So, could we agree to make that normative change to NFv3? Second, should we adapt that into DTF?

SFC: We first should agree on the end result  then we should talk about how to get there. I am convinced that we should support/allow ranges to be specified in either order. To get there, we can change NFv3 now and DateTimeFormat later, or we can do it as a separate proposal in order to align changes in both APIs. We could get the DateTimeFormat change ready now, either as a proposal or a normative PR; for example, we can propose this change for DTF directly for Stage 2 and start implementation to get stage 3. But first, do we agree to allow ranges to be specified in either order?

RCA : +1

USA : + 1 I am convinced by use cases presented by FYT , that the same argument applies for selectRange ?

SFC : PluralRules selectRange should be consistent with NumberFormat formatRange.

DLM : +1

YSZ : +1 Motivation and use cases are reasonable. I agree that comparing Intl Mathematical Value is complicated in the implementation.

QMO: I think it makes sense in some cases, if we can make some distinctions  between things that we are able to wrap like Integers don’t wrap clocks…

SFC: We don't necessarily know at the call site whether the thing we're formatting is cyclic.

QMO: Can we add an additional function, one that does the range check and one that doesn't?

FYT : I want to know if any people know why we originally added this range check

SFC : The person was me 4 years ago before being convinced by the use cases

SFC: In terms of adding more methods? Would this be easy to do in userland? I feel that this won’t be complicated in userland unless it formats `IntlMathematicalValue`, but otherwise it’s solvable. We also don’t want to overdo methods on the prototypes.

SFC: Should we consider adding a formatCheckedRange function (name could be discussed)? I think if we were to add such a function, we should do it now.

RCA: Could it be in the options bag?

FYT: I would oppose that; it's a lot of implementation complexity for an unclear use case.

RCA: It would be an option to increase the strictness check.

FYT: But the implementation would need to continue to carry the complexity.

SFC: See the notes from 2019 here:

- https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/blob/HEAD/meetings/notes-2019-01-17.md
- https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/blob/HEAD/meetings/notes-2019-02-21.md

SFC: My opinion then is that we should change the formatRange behavior and not retain it in another form, due to the implementation complexity concerns.

QMO: Makes sense.

USA : What you’re thinking about normative PR for July meeting ?

SFC : Let’s think about how we can do this , we can add an Agenda item , with a combined proposal from two normative PR’s , if plenary agrees we can merge both.

FYT : We might have to change temporal as well

USA : This can be part of the Stage 4 review for Temporal

SFC: We can do it without making any change in Temporal , do we like this approach ?

USA: +1

RCA: +1

#### Conclusion

- Remove the range check from the main formatRange functions

- Next Steps for TC39 July meeting
	- Presentation with two normative PR’s to change NF and DTF
- FYT to prepare the presentation and add it to the agenda

### Intl.Segmenter with URLs, email addresses, and acronyms

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/656

RCA: I updated the test to reflect ICU, and it has revealed the V8 issues.

USA : The part of segmenter we are trying to test here it’s not exactly specified , this means we are restricting implementation behavior on test262,
This probably done better by testing in ICU

FYT : The origin of the conversation was a V8 bug

USA : How other engines are dealing with this ?

FYT : Actually V8 changes the ICU behavior then we have this bug

RGN : UAX29 defines a set of rules but implementations

SFC : The spec has a note about boundary definition based on UAX29. I am strongly in favor of adding this test.

FYT: I understand USA concerns , but there is precedence of having some tests specifying locales

RGN: I don't think it is appropriate to put in place this testing that makes a  conformance requirement  that doesn't appear in the specification. If you have your own constraints you could layer on top of it from what’s provided by the implementation

USA: Are we discovering that we need to bring more of UAX 29 into ECMA-402?

RGN: It would be unprecedented to do so, and unnecessary to do so. UAX 29 is clear about allowing locale-specific tailorings.

FYT: I can see both arguments. On one hand, ECMA-402 is scoping a consistent API in terms of functionality, but we don't guarantee it produces the same result across browsers. The same browser can change behavior, like DateTimeFormat. But I can understand the need from the developer. But that's a hard goal to achieve in ECMA-402. Do we make that constraint on DTF as well?

SFC:  The goal of ECMA-402 is to provide an API surface where we specify enough for implementing use cases. It could be argued that in some cases we specify too much. But in general, we don’t specify how some locale dependent operations should be. For Segmenter I think it’s totally reasonable for a user to expect a certain behavior involving the segmentation of URLs, email addresses, acronyms, and abbreviations.  Last month we agreed that we were happy with the UAX 29 reference, and I'm fine with conclusion, but now we are saying the opposite. My proposal is to make sure that implementations obey this normative reference. Ultimately there are two questions:

1. Is it reasonable for developers to request/expect this consistency?
2. Do we need to make any spec changes?

USA: IETF has normative and informative references. One question is, is the UAX 29 reference a normative reference? This would determine whether or not implementations can be more loose.

RGN : I’m not clear in what you’re proposing to making normative or not , for the 1st question it’s NO developer should not rely on this , then we should extend the surface area to allow for manual spec of rule

YSZ: Consistency for javascript and consistency for internationalization is between browsers but also with the rest of the platform's internationalization.

USA: What RGN mention about the rules , goes back to the previous discussion - perhaps lower level segmented that allows more control

SFC : When this was 1st raised I offered several solutions. One was including a word mode and token mode that would cover this use case of URLs and emails.

The Gdocs use case it’s a real strong case and I believe that consistency it’s important - this is not a locale dependent change it’s based in how implementation interpret the UAX29 main reason that we should cover this somehow. If we don’t want to have a more strong ref to UAX we should advocate for a word type and token type where we can specify to be more specialized for this use cases

USA : If we do token mode we should update UAX29 anyway , correct ?

RGN: I understand that there is a problem here , but isn’t with the spec. V8 it’s not useful for Gdocs purposes and some of the case aren’t even specified in UAX29.

SFC : This use cases for emails/URLs etc are wider and not a domain specific requirement.

USA: The main idea it’s how we do normative enforcement to be able to test that behaviors , and move this from note to a Function body.

RGN : UAX29 itself doesn’t impose those normative constraints , only a general specification for boundary determination. It might be wrong to require from ECMA402 to require to be strict here when UAX29 is not.

RGN : I do support pushing this to the Unicode Consortium , extend it somehow , either updating the rules or by introducing a new mode etc..

SFC:  Last month we had said UAX 29 was clear enough in about what happens with full stops. So you’re saying that we should be stronger in both UAX29 and ECMA402.

USA : I think that a good idea to strengthen it on our side based on what RGN mention

SFC: I do believe we should have that discussion at Unicode side independently of this.

FYT: I think we can address this from the implementation side, but what would be more interesting would be to have another implementation with another configuration.

SFC: But this means we have “nothing to solve”; the current behavior is spec-compliant.

RGN: But you can justify it on consistency. The behavior is not guaranteed but it’s expected.

SFC: We keep coming up with different conclusions on each meeting, which is frustrating. Consistency is part of our discussions with Mozilla. When implementations diverge, it’s hard to find out what the expected result is. We all seem to agree that Chrome has buggy behavior, but if Chrome doesn't fix it, Firefox may choose to also adopt that buggy behavior. That situation is not good for browsers and not good for users. I think it is the specification's job to answer these conformance questions. If the specification doesn't answer it, it is failing to do its job.
