# June 11 Meeting

Attendees:

- Zibi Braniecki - Mozilla (ZB)
- Shane Carr - Google i18n (SFC), Moderator
- Philip Chimento - Igalia (PFC)
- Romulo Cintra - CaixaBank (RCA), MessageFormat Working Group Liaison
- Craig Cornelius - Google i18n (CCN)
- Richard Gibson - OpenJS Foundation (RGN)
- Ross Kirsling - Sony, JSC (RKG)
- Caio Lima - Igalia (CLA)
- Younies Mahmoud - Google i18n (YMD)
- Myles C. Maxfield - Apple (MCM)
- Ujjwal Sharma - Igalia (USA)
- Frank Yung-Fong Tang - Google i18n, V8 (FYT)
- Hugo van der Merwe - Google i18n (HUG)
- Jeff Walden - SpiderMonkey/Mozilla (JSW)
- Rafael Xavier - PayPal (RX)
- Leo Balter - Salesforce (LEO)

Standing items:

- [Discussion Board](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/projects/2)
- [Status Wiki](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/wiki/Proposal-and-PR-Progress-Tracking) -- please update!
- [Abbreviations](https://github.com/rwaldron/tc39-notes/blob/HEAD/delegates.txt)
- [MDN Tracking](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402-mdn)

## Next Meeting

[Calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=unicode.org_nubvqveeeol570uuu7kri513vc%40group.calendar.google.com)

## Liaison Updates

### MessageFormat Working Group

Next Meeting Agenda : https://github.com/unicode-org/message-format-wg/issues/92

## Agenda

- Why MessageFormat needs a successor
    - https://github.com/unicode-org/message-format-wg/issues/49
    - RCA: Old issue, but will debate closing this now. There’s a proposal explaining the need for the WG in detail.
- Design Principles:
    - https://github.com/unicode-org/message-format-wg/issues/88
    - https://github.com/unicode-org/message-format-wg/issues/68
    - https://github.com/unicode-org/message-format-wg/issues/64
    - https://github.com/unicode-org/message-format-wg/issues/63
    - https://github.com/unicode-org/message-format-wg/issues/62
    - https://github.com/unicode-org/message-format-wg/issues/60
    - https://github.com/unicode-org/message-format-wg/issues/60
    - RCA: Design work pending, but the roadmap is set. In the last meeting, defined the scope, goals and non-goals of the WG. Glad to finally kick off “real” work in the area.

## Discussion Topics

### Smart Unit Preferences

https://github.com/tc39/proposal-smart-unit-preferences

YMD: *introduces proposal* (locale-aware unit conversions and formatting) *quickly presents the slides*

ZB: First question: has there been an ECMA 402 issue about this?

SFC: Yes, #277.

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/277

MCM: I'm interested in this usage field. Do you have an idea of how many possible values are there? Are we talking 5 possible values or 500 possible values?

YMD: There are about 10 in CLDR right now. For example, right now we have person, but maybe we can ask person-children in the future.

ZB: I had a chance to look at the issue. I’m concerned that this was presented to TC39 before it was presented here. This seems to be ?? and the last comment was from Dan(?) That this was a good candidate to user lib. <missed a bunch of things> My first question on the proposal is: have you considered exposing the units, so I can ask what’s the person height and the answer can be in meters. <missed>

YMD: Okay, so you want instead of just giving the usage, you want a functionality to give the usage, input value, and locale, and it returns the expected output unit, and then people do the conversion on their own?

ZB: ???

SFC: This is a discussion I think we should have and I’m glad we are having now. This idea of smart unit is ?? and  the shape of API is to be determined. There are benefits for both approaches (from ZB and YMD). An API needs to be aware of what’s the threshold for a given unit and this requires a lot of locale data and it is a large API surface.

ZB:  ??? Impossible to provide complete functionality here. The API I’m suggesting is a building block, and someone would request for it

MCM: Can you give background on what the objection to doing calculations is?

ZB: We discussed this with RelativeTimeFormat. We thought about doing calculations with discrete time units. The problem was due to the case where we don’t know if 1 hour from now will be tomorrow if it is 11PM. This involves time zones and other things. But we decided to do lower-level formatting and let Moment.js and other libraries do the calculations, because we don't have a perfect answer. Maybe we know how to calculate meters into feet, and users don't need to customize that behavior. The main thing is that I don't want this feature to grow into a whole lot of new features/options.

YMD: We can give the ability to override the preference itself. This view is from the ICU side of discussion and there is the case of default user preferences ???. If, for extreme cases, people want to override unit preferences, we can add that in the future.

ZB: That's the feature creep I'm talking about. It sounds like the API surface will keep growing.

At some point we will want to expose building blocks to people to develop their solutions in user space. I don’t see from the issue tracker that there is no user asking for it. I see Shane filling this issue and Dan? Saying it should be a user lib candidate. My worry is that if there is not enough NPM packages solving this problem, I don’t know how this is necessary right now. I’m just trying to give the idea that exposing building blocks could be a good idea. I don’t know what the build block would look like.

MCM: I agree with the principle that in order to know whether to make a high-level or low-level API, we should know the users and use cases, and we should start with that.

RCA: I have a comment as an end user: It looks handy and useful, but I see a lot of customizations here that make sense for a 3rd party library. There are two steps here: conversion and formatting. I don’t know any libraries that do both of these things together.

SFC: I’ve got a couple of comments. The issue 210 about ??? in my mind covers a lot of feature requests about the ability to customize the data that empower this feature. Customizing the rounding behavior from YMD researchs is pretty straightforward (?). The other point I had was, we don’t currently do calculations that involve multiplicative operations, but we do scaling and scientific notation.

ZB: I think you’re right. There are two pieces that could be building blocks when considering such an API. I’m a little concerned about shipping such a high-level end-to-end feature. I trust your experience with ICU, but I’m concerned that this isn’t the only thing people want to do. Maybe it’s true that we know everything, but we need to do some more research here.

SFC: I think it would be useful for YMD and HUG to go do the research on how this can be used on JS space as ZB recommended. There is some way to do this on C++ and Java side, but it would be valuable to do such research. There is a lot of building blocks to be considered here and we are talking about a very big API. Having an end2end API ?? have a smaller space and ???. That’s why we though that this approach made more sense from the ICU point of view.

YMD: There are some websites that can use “%” and ???. For C++ and Java there are mini libraries to solve this, but there’s no library that takes lcoale in consideration.

ZB: I’m concerned about the fact that there’s no prior work which is end-to-end. Shane, I agree with you regarding ICU but ICU has different concerns, ECMA 402 can’t change ever. Entering in a solution that there’s no prior solution to look for and thinking that we have a way to do this is a bold statement to make. This can be something that is very difficult to specify or can be underspecified.

SFC: I agree with your second point. It’s very much a impl-dependent algorithm that gives impls enough leeway. I think we can change the algorithm or atleast tweak it on the CLDR-Unicode side as we go.

MCM: I admit that such liberal algorithms help browsers, but they also leave non-dominant impls to reverse-engineer what the dominant impls do.

SFC: I haven’t formed an opinion, but this doesn’t seem to be a kind of algorithm that can cause browser inconsistency. The Date constructor is an example of that, due to the way we parse Strings there. Can we say we want some more research about how this problem is being solved into JS space before we move too much forward with this proposal? I’d hope that this committee agrees with the idea of smart units are important for ECMA402?

ZB: I understand. I agree with the proposal in the principle of Internationalization, but I think “smart” things tend to age poorly in Computer Science. One valuable thing we can bring is that when this is part of ECMA402, we avoid shipping such locale data to every user that fetches a site.

SFC: Is not only the data, but also the code to do the conversions and selecting user preferences.

YMD: ???

SFC: I think this proposal satisfies the conditions for Stage 1, which is that we think this is a worthwhile area to investigate.

FYT: Do you have a proposal, ZB?

ZB: there may be multiple “smart” things, and this is one of them. I would prefer a more fitting name. I don’t have any ideas off the top of my head.

YMD: I’d make an issue and we can weigh-in over there.

SFC: One more advantage of this proposal are inflections. That’s something that CLDR is working on adding to measurement units as well as other formatters.

### ListFormat

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/33

ZB: It’s ready for stage 4.

SFC: It’s already available on Chrome for a while. Is it already available on FF too?

ZB: Behind a flag, yes.

ZB: If the group has nothing to oppose, I'd like to create the PR against ECMA-402 for it.

SFC: We already have all requirements for stage 4. I think this can move to Stage 4.

ZB: [V2 issue](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-list-format/issues/51) I think this is an interesting conceptual problem to solve.

ZB: Do we have consensus for Stage 4?

(silence)


#### Conclusion

Stage 4! ZB will work into the PR

### short/medium/long/full style for Intl.DateTimeFormat

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/108

ZB: The status is that we have 1 Editorial issue and 1 non-editorial issue. (https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-datetime-style/issues/49) The second issue is editorial, and we have a PR for it.

ZB: The second issue is editorial and we have a patch for it (link for patch)

SFC: Do you want to discuss  now (https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-datetime-style/issues/49)

ZB: Yeah (gives background on this issue).

That's really not the way styles work. In some locales, the option bag may change. ??? makes it more internationalized. AFAICT, there is no precedence on how to ???.

SFC: The other example is that style: "currency" causes fraction digits to be recalculated.

ZB: If the user sets a different ??? do we show the max of it.
The only use case I can imagine for that is people using it to expect to have fields in a given way. We don’t want to users having this expectation, because we can change this from CLDR data.

SFC: (show example in screen for the problem)

SFC: I’m hoping that when this issue gets resolved on CLDR, we can start going into the direction of not throwing TypeError when the bag of options is inconsistent.

ZB: There are cases where we have style and skeletons, but the problem is that style could override requested fields.

ZB: If there is not thoughts, I’ll consult with SFC and DE into the PR and move forward based on discussions there. Considering that we solve both issues, I’d like to ask for Stage 4 in the next TC39 meeting. Would it be a problem to ask for stage 4 tehre?

SFC: I don’t have strong opinions on those options, but I’m slightly in favor of either 1 or 3.

JSW: I prefer thinking about dateStyle/timeStyle as being orthogonal to the other fields, so I like Option 1, which doesn't conflate the two sets of fields.

SFC: I'm sold.

ZB: Me too. Let's go with Option 1.

JSW: I’m pretty confident that option 1 is what I reviewed on Firefox.

ZB: Yes, I think option 1 is in the spec too. I think things should change a bit with anba’s editorial patches, but I hope it’s still acceptable either way.

JSW: That’s is something that was in the patch I reviewed.

ZB: Shane, would you like to take a look at the other issues in this proposal? I don’t think this needs to be blocked on Temporal.

SFC: I probably filed this issue when Temporal was moving faster, but I think that’s not the case now and we would need to solve this issue on Temporal side.

FYT: I actually have an issue about Stage 4. #46 was added recently. I don’t think we have V8 implementation on throwing errors. But I’d like to know if we have test coverage for things that were changed lately.

ZB: that’s a good point. I don’t think this is covered. Especially the cases you pointed out (about throwing errors).

FYT: Yes. I’m also concerned about anything that we changed and if we have test coverage on those tests. I want to make sure that we have at least one test that covers it.

ZB: I’m going to add that test coverage request. I want to verify with you that you agree with anba that this is how the behavior should be.

FYT: I got confused. I agree with this. This is currently not how V8 implements the throwing behavior, but I think this is the way to go. Yes, I think this is the right way to go.

ZB: I'm going to add it to the issue of test coverage post Stage 3, and I assume V8/SM will align. I think this is the last issue in the repository. We'll make a decision on the resolved options, done with this proposal, and request Stage 4.

SFC: Zibi, do you want to ask the question?

ZB: Is this group happy with Stage 4 advancement of this proposal?

FYT: I agree.

(silence)

ZB: I read silence as an acceptance, thank you. This is the last proposal that I’ve been championing since the flock of proposal I picked up since 2015.

#### Conclusion

Stage 4, pending final resolution on the open editorial issues

### Intl.Locale minimize/maximize extension keys

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/409

SFC: Issue #6 is specifically about user preferences, not specifically date/time. A big and very important problem area. Lots of implications for user privacy. Native platforms and other platforms can do this, this could make operating system settings be available on the web platform. Details about how such thinks will get from OS into browser involves security issues, of course.

Monday there will be a meeting with privacy experts. Lots of input on this would be welcomed.
(SFC shows an example of how we could implement this, once privacy concerns are addressed, from ecma402 Issue #409.)

Proposal from DE and SFC is that the eventual model would be for `navigator.locales` would be a set of Unicode keywords. User could call for “likely calendar”, returning user-set preferences. If none set, instead of returning undefined, this could return system settings.

Question: Is this the general direction that we like? Do we think it covers most of the requirements that we have? Do we like the look and shape of this?

ZB: I’m very interested in this area and have seen users being frustrated with Firefox.
Part of the challenge is the privacy concern (fingerprint vector).
There are essentially two questions: (1) likely calendar for this locale, first day of the week for this locale, vs (2) what is the first day of the week that the user requested, what the user wants.
Difference between Windows and Mac: one of those platforms assume if you overrode one of those settings, you did it for all the locales. (HourCycle, overrode for primary, secondary locale, etc.) The other platform only respects the overrides for the primary locale. Interesting Question: what is the user's intent for overrides w.r.t. multiple locales?

SFC: User preference comes from navigator. If the extension keyword is not present, then resolve it from locale data. If you strip the extension keywords, then it will always come from locale data. These issues will need to be resolved as this moves forward into stage 1.

SFC: This is not the only issue re: user preferences, actually there are 9 of them. I hope we can resolve all of these issues with the same framework. One specific framework was proposed in issue #409, related to #416 discussed at the onsite in February - in the HTTP header.

SFC: I've made contact with client-hints people, hoping to make progress with them.

ZB: showed interest

MCM: I’m interested in that.

FYT: could also be used by non-browser applications, e.g., Node.js. Need to be careful that we do what is needed for browsers. If there is no user on the server, what is the scope that the ECMA402 spec will deal with? Our work should be aware of what 402 can / should do as opposed to more general applications.

SFC: Navigator.locales is not a 402 proposal. Node people could try to get an equivalent solution on their end vs. browser implementations.

USA: correct me if I'm wrong, "Why shouldn't the whole thing be done in W3C, WHATWG some other standards organisation, rather than TC39 which is more generalized to hosts other than browsers?"

FYT: this should be discussed by people who deal with the W3C DOM group, not here. W

SFC: The larger problem of user preferences is not limited to ECMA402.

FYT: ECMA402 should not talk about any user preferences at all. The DOM committee should be consulted, if this will be in the DOM.

SFC: When user preferences are not explicitly available, the logic to fall back into CLDR data is in our area of expertise. We should approach this holistically, across the whole web platform. This is why I wanted to discuss it here.

MCM: Privacy interest group at the W3C (“PING”) may be a good place to discuss this.

ZB: I agree with FYT's sentiment. I feel that the area sits between us and W3C. When I ask about this with our privacy group at Mozilla, the answer is that the browser will provide widgets that respect user overrides. What I'm thinking about here is that once we have this cooperation with the privacy folks, maybe we will want to specify in JavaScript that there's a different level of user preference overrides that get exposed to environments like Node than the web. I think the W3C already has this concept; for example, HTTPS sites get different data than HTTP sites.

Perhaps in association with W3C and others, perhaps we can come to a solution.

SFC: Do I hear the early workings of a champion group between ZB, MCM and myself? Plus maybe YMD, also expressed some interest in this?

YMD and MCM confirmed interest.

FYT: Here’s my concern. This needs to be addressed and is important, but TC39 is really the wrong group to solve this problem. The real group is W3C. If people really care about this, those people should be approaching W3C directly rather than TC39.

MCM: I think the privacy interest group at the W3C is a good place for this.

SFC: “Champion group” should be communicating with other groups. As to where it should be housed, that needs to be decided later. The first goal is to get the experts together, then figure out its proper home.

FYT: That sounds good to me.

SFC: Do we generally have agreement that user preferences is an area that we want to pursue? Considering the ways this would affect ECMA402 and Test262?

SFC: We don't have a repository for this yet, but we should start putting one together.


SFC: Next subject is probably of interest to Miles - hold to next month, not super urgent for now but should be resolved.

New discussion group for user preferences on the web platform. Please keep substantive discussion on GitHub.

### Region Override Support

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/370

SFC: Region overwrite support, identified during bug triage last week, I wanted to discuss this with this gorup. Can we start supporting the RG subtag?

ZB: Why is it not supported, perhaps was it added late?

FYT: what does RG mean?

SFC: en-US: English as spoken in the US. But if you grew up in Romania, and speak en-US and write it, might

prefers other preferences from Romania, then the locale would be en-US-u-rg-RO.

USA: agrees.

ZB: Firefox users wanting to use en-US but otherwise use European preferences. On Linux and GNU: en-DK.

USA: en-DK and similar locales usually use GB spellings.

ZB: ... Hence we feel the `-u-rg-XX` extension would be the most useful way to specify this kind of preference.

FYT: Still confused on definition of “rg”. Gave example asking what pieces affect what.

SFC: It is well specified in UTS35. The details for how the extension keyword is supported is for the UTS35.

SFC: Modulo the ICU support, do we have general agreement that we want support for this keyword?

ZB: I don't want ICU to be the driving factor for what we choose to include. The spec does not rely on ICU.

FYT: But the stage will depend on it.

ZB: We won't get implementations until ICU supports it.

SFC: I think we have general agreement on this.

### Proposal and PR Progress Tracking

https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/wiki/Proposal-and-PR-Progress-Tracking

SFC: There are a few pull requests that have not yet been merged. Added a table
This includes things that don’t have 402 consensus, and maybe should not have been merged.

In particular, relative time format does not have length properly, so should length be added to relative time format. Why do we really need this, and should we either add for consistency and explore if it’s needed in others.

ZB: Wouldn't mind if

SFC: Do we agree that we go for consistency for now? […]

<agreements>

SFC: Other stage 3 proposals that we have not discussed yet: formatRange and Intl.DisplayNames

FYT: some minor details need to be worked out yet.

JSW: busy with reviews for implementations in SpiderMonkey.

SFC: Hoping that Felipe will be able to continue his championing of that proposal

FYT: Can we talk about Segmenter next time?

SFC: From the 402 people we agree we want to move it forward, but the private fields issue needs to be resolved by TC39.

RGN: … reviewers have been activated.

ZB: something noted in Nodes - not certain if break iterator can be removed even if segmenter is available. Breaking is increasing in use. We don’t want to have to maintain the two in parallel. Is it clear that break iterator will be removed?

FYT: Deprecations need time. [V8 break iterator, line]. Now, 0.65 % of web pages use a break iterator. 0.4% use the iterator on words.

FYT: 0.07% are using it for line break. That gives me a little more confidence that when we ship the segmenter without the line break, we can more easily move forward to deprecating that.

SFC: we can discuss this some more first thing next meeting.

FYT: The only blocking issues are

RGN: the current spec as-is does not have any of these issues, it just has a weird collection of properties. There is a pull request to correct that.

FYT: Hoping to get this addressed in Stage 3.

## Next Meeting

SFC: We're already over time. We will discuss the Segmenter and Changing Meeting Formats next time (proposal was to have a break in the middle).
