<!-- Copy and paste the converted output. -->

<!-----
NEW: Check the "Suppress top comment" option to remove this info from the output.

Conversion time: 1.608 seconds.


Using this Markdown file:

1. Paste this output into your source file.
2. See the notes and action items below regarding this conversion run.
3. Check the rendered output (headings, lists, code blocks, tables) for proper
   formatting and use a linkchecker before you publish this page.

Conversion notes:

* Docs to Markdown version 1.0β27
* Mon Jun 22 2020 18:50:52 GMT-0700 (PDT)
* Source doc: Accept-Language Meeting Notes
----->

User Preferences Meeting with Chrome Security Team
==================================================


15 June 2020


## Attendees



*   Shane Carr (Google i18n engineering, works on ECMA 402, etc.)
*   Anne van Kesteren (Mozilla)
*   Daniel Ehrenberg (looked into fingerprinting, work for Igalia)
*   David Benjamin (various Chrome crypto things, now privacy sandbox for Chrome)
*   Hugo van der Merwe (Google i18n in Switzerland, working on units in ICU)
*   Luke Swartz (Google i18n PM)
*   Mike West (Chrome security-related stuff)
*   Paul Jensen (Privacy Sandbox @ Chrome, looking at fingerprinting)
*   Yoav Weiss (Chrome, client hints for many years, most recently on user agent)
*   Zibi Braniecki (Mozilla platform architecture)
*   Younies Mahmoud (Google i18n in Switzerland, working on units in ICU)


## Intro



*   Shane working on
    *   wish to include Unicode Extension Keys in the Web Platform
    *   see: [https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/416](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/416)
*   Often questions about privacy/fingerprinting, not i18n team’s expertise
*   Yoav linked to [https://github.com/davidben/client-language-selection](https://github.com/davidben/client-language-selection) and [https://github.com/WICG/lang-client-hint](https://github.com/WICG/lang-client-hint) 


## Shane: Why language codes alone (without extensions) aren’t sufficient



*   For example: someone who prefers 24-hour clock but their default locale uses 12-hour clock
*   Things that can be specified with locale extensions: calendar system, currency format, sort order, first day of week, 12 vs 24 hour, numbering system…
*   ECMA 402 (i18n standard for ECMAScript, aka JavaScript) often gets questions about i18n user preferences
*   This is one of the biggest gaps between the Web Platform and OS preferences
*   Proposed adding these extensions to the accept-language header (likely at the end?) → concerns about increasing the existing accept-language fingerprinting problem


## David: Wrote up [client-language-selection](https://github.com/davidben/client-language-selection)



*   ...a response to [https://github.com/WICG/lang-client-hint](https://github.com/WICG/lang-client-hint) 
*   client hints: not sent passively, server would have to request them...that way we could see which sites request what
*   e.g. dark mode is a bit the user reveals, but it’s important
*   this way we’d know which sites need a given bit, and which don’t
*   e.g. if someone with US IP address requests en-US, that’s not very identifying but “en, zh, ru” is more problematic
*   so if a site knows the user’s first requested language, no need to know the secondary language(s)
*   if one person has {en,fr} and {en,es} the cache entries will be the same {en}, so once variants are adopted → browser can find the right one, don’t need to change headers but servers would need to adopt variants
*   Use case where server would legitimately want to know secondary language(s)
    *   even though the UI can only be 1 language at a time, content on some sites could be >1 language
*   Luke: If a site already supports the first language, you said you don't need to know the secondary language, but the secondary languages could still be used to customize the content.
*   David: Yeah, there's an issue open for that.
*   Luke: If servers who need it can ask for it, that would solve the problem
*   David: Yeah, if use cases are rare, should be able to budget for this...but ~everyone needs to know at least 1 locale
*   Yoav: how would variants deal with multiple dimensions (e.g. 24 clock, etc)?
*   David: yeah, variants doesn't deal too well with that. I think you have to put the variants on each axis you care about. So, I guess it would handle it well: you can say I care about English versus French, 12-hour versus 24-hour, etc. It's also possible that maybe our answer for language and our answer for 12-hour versus 24-hour are different.
*   Yoav: The main difference is that we don't expose the additional information unnecessarily.
*   David: Yeah, the 24-hour is a yes/no answer; it's not as large of a vector as the list of preferred languages.
*   Luke: It sounds like there need to be 2 requests?
*   David: On the initial request there would be. Client Hints has a similar problem. We're working on solutions to that problem.
*   Luke: I know products like Google Search are latency-sensitive and get traffic from incognito, but two pings seems expensive. Determining languages happens early on in the search stack.
*   David: We could stick things in the HTTP setting frame; depending on how differently the GeoIP info is different, the server could guess on that; and maybe we could always send the primary language only, and have fallbacks returned when requested.
*   Yoav:  Maybe we could have a Client Hints way of exposing the additional negotiation.
*   Daniel: Is there multi-vendor interest in this?
*   Anne: I've seen this before. But I think the abuse vector wasn't covered, so I can't comment on it yet.
*   Zibi: My main concern is how this relates to multi-part fallback chains. Web sites sometimes fall back directly from the local language to en-US, but we want to allow fallback from es-CL to es-ES to fr-FR and finally en-US
*   Luke: Fallbacks involving en-US versus en-GB are also relevant.
*   Zibi: So servers could request multiple languages?
*   David: ?
*   Yoav: In terms of Zibi's use case, this new solution gives the client more control over how the fallback chain is handled.
*   Mike: although there are q values in the accept-language header, we mostly don’t use them.


## Mike: Can we discuss the high-level problem?



*   we currently expose a pretty large passive fingerprinting due to sending a number of things by default
*   all these proposals want to change that
*   servers really need to know some pieces of information to generate the right content
*   ...but other information wouldn’t be necessary over HTTP, or at least by default
*   what is the information we can send:
    *   by default
    *   upon request
    *   not at all (further hide, e.g. using Variants mechanism)
    *   push through JS (not HTTP at all)
*   Chrome’s approach: move from passive → active discovery mechanism...we currently don’t know which servers need what
    *   by shifting we can adjust the thresholds over time
*   The core of these proposals is the shift from passive to active. The core claim being made in these proposals is that we need to shift that info, and seems like the key way to move.


## Daniel Ehrenberg: navigator.locale



*   JS API that could get similar data
*   Intl.locales API is in ECMA 402 (language tag, region, script, and extension keys)
*   user-agent could give more personalized data
*   [https://github.com/whatwg/html/pull/3046](https://github.com/whatwg/html/pull/3046)
*   some counterarguments that caused me to drop this:
    *   not everything fits into BCP-47 extensions...although subsequent discussions have been: why not start with these?
    *   concerns re: what we expose, fingerprinting
*   But in more recent discussions, we said we can start with whats fits in there, and extend it to other things.
*   The other questions were about whether browsers want to expose thing, and fingerprinting.
*   Current proposal is “all or nothing” → but could be reframed to only ask for what you need
*   Zibi: Out of Dan's proposal, I wanted to point out the issue listed in bullet point 3 on the issue thread. 
    *   maybe just figure out what the date actually used (when a date was formatted, was it in 24 versus 12 hour clock)?
    *   ...but it doesn’t make fingerprinting any harder, and it does make it harder to make a custom widget
*   Zibi: I collected information on what users ask for
    *   hour cycle = most common bit, really matters to users if we don’t respect it
    *   over-writes to date/time patterns → Windows & Mac OS let you assign a pattern to a style, so you can, say, use YYYY-MM-DD even if your locale doesn’t use this normally...very noticeable to users when things don’t respect this
        *   cannot be expressed (today) in unicode extensions
    *   ...OS’s allow other customization options but they seem to be less common
    *   Numbering options, first day of week, currencies, etc.
*   Daniel Ehrenberg: also decided not to implicitly expose OS preferences
    *   ...already have a problem with “default locale” in ECMA, was probably a mistake in hindsight
    *   W3C i18n group (Addison Phillips) had some objections to including unicode extension tags


## Next steps → how can i18n & privacy work together going forward?



*   Mike & David → main proposal owners, what is timeline, next steps? What information should be default / on request / not at all?
*   Mike: wrote a document 2 years ago, I’ll defer to David & Yoav
*   David: my response as well...Paul?
*   Hugo: if this is mostly on the client side, does this matter?
*   David: web isn’t set up where a website can render a thing but not know what it is...so we probably have to either honor the preference or not
*   Daniel: no API for doing either, we just “get it wrong” right now
*   David: if we were to bring info into the web, no way to do so without revealing that information
*   David: For each feature, we need to decide which bucket (active, passive, or variants) the feature falls into.
*   Shane: who is decision-maker?
    *   Mike: within Chromium, Paul & his team...security & privacy teams are also excellent people to talk to, I can help a bit
    *   Daniel: would be great to have multi-vendor support & no vendors opposed
*   Shane: if a follow-up proposal takes the best parts of the various docs, covers everyone’s use cases, how do we make it a reality?
*   Paul: likely won’t have “one size fits all”, need to find the combination that fits nicely
    *   one things I’ve taken away: different things work differently
    *   we need to figure out which things will benefit users most, help fit them into Mike’s categories of priority
*   Yoav: I think that's good, but there's also a question of what info we're exposing. We have these buckets, and we should think about whether we put them in the same Client Hint, whether to put them in a variant, etc. We should know how we can expose that info without exposing too much.


## Zibi: would also like privacy input on this proposal: [ecma402/issues/443](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/443) 



*   Zibi: HTML widgets for opaque pref respecting?
    *   when I talked to people @ Mozilla → privacy teams said we should try to use more HTML widgets
    *   if we have a really good “time widget” (e.g. for time/date selection) then it can respect hour-cycle, and return a selected time without revealing to the server how it was presented in the widget
    *   Luke: this wouldn’t help display use cases though? (vs selection)
    *   Zibi: correct...but might be used to get rid of certain preferences (e.g. you might still need 24/12 hour preferences but maybe not for “first day of week”)
*   Dan: It's something user agents are allowed to do I think, and it's up to your i18n product quality? I remember there's the OpenUI project.
*   David: if using standard pickers reduces the % of websites that need certain preferences, then it might be worthwhile to reduce our fingerprinting budget
*   Zibi: Two more bits are:
    *   To protect privacy, we use a method "supportedLocalesOf", which makes it harder to fingerprint, but I don't know if that actually works.
    *   The other issue is loading missing locale data.
*   Daniel: I wonder whether asynchronicity is also a problem.
*   Mike: I suggest you talk to Yoav about this.
